Back in Thronehold for a day.  We make our report to Director Gauss.

Chibo gets a chance to visit Dr. Greaves re: Stabacus vs. Obstabatory.  Stabacus based on same principles, perhaps derived from planar observatories that date back to Draconic age, scaled down to pocket size.  Chibo and Xotl hit up Madame Korbala’s to peruse the latest volume of Kalos Bombax.

We get the report that an assassination has occurred in Flamekeep.  A minister for the Council of Cardinals: Nicholas Bruchwald.  Dane pushes back: why us?  Response: There are details Flamekeep did not make open, but Dane’s specific presence was requested and once there the reasoning should be more apparent, when we meet with Captain Edvurk.

Dane passes a note to a SPAN secretary for his family - requesting that Radiance meet us at the rendezvous point so we can use her as a source of information. (No mention of the brazier)

On the way to the ship, Xotl picks up magnifying glasses and Sherlock Holmes hats for everyone.

We proceed across the Scion Sound to Flamekeep.  It has a distinctive skyline with a bay and off to the side are cliffs with clear cavern entrances, with wyverns flying in and out, known to be allies.  The two most prominent features are Flamekeep itself, a grand temple built within the keep, and the castle of the Blood Regent of Thrane, with a spire that reaches slightly higher than Flamekeep.

We park the Tide and are welcomed to Flamekeep.  We follow our directions and proceed to an upscale part of town.  Dane lets us know that any civil disobedience will be met with severe punishment.  Sitting on a small stone pillar, we see a young woman with green eyes and close-cropped hair, who locks eyes with Dane.  She jumps down from the pillar and steps in to hug Ordinance.  Dane explains our mission to Radiance.  She leads us to the address, which is a two-story chateau with visible dark wood beams, fresh thatch.  Local town guard, looks like a nice wide street, clean, lots of people around.  There is a broken window on the second floor - as if a hole punched through it, and cracks radiating out of it.  

As we approach, one of the watch hustles in while another couple approach us, and a man walks out with a higher-ranking uniform - silver hair, athletic but developing a paunch.  He introduces himself as Captain Edvurk.  “LT-aught 31 I presume?”  Xotl says “we’re here to see the body!”  Then Dane steps in to more formally ask to enter and see the scene.  The Captain says he can only show the scene to the SPAN legates, but Radiance must remain outside.  She suggests they meet for dinner at the Wyvern’s Sting - and Dane requests that if any other members of the fam wish to show up, he’d like advance notice.

We enter the house, led by Captain Edvurk.  It is a nicely appointed house, tapestries on the walls to prevent drafts, beautiful window work throughout, art, a den with crystal bottles that Chibo fails to steal.  Dane notes the home is a little nicer than most, well appointed and spacious - the minister had an eye for quality, though he must have been pretty well off.  

In the bedroom, there’s a desk, a bed with made-up comforter, and on the floor is a man in a housecoat with eyes and tongue bulging and a raw red line around his throat.  The captain informs us he was found this way this morning by his butler - he’d woken up, taken breakfast, and as the butler explains, that window was broken from the outside (two days ago).  The only other person in the house today was a glazier to fix the window.  The butler came in and found him this way, and called the guard without disturbing the room.  

Dane asks the Captain - why Flamekeep has requested SPAN?  Why would they need, much less want, SPAN?  The captain points to the desk, which has a folio with a stamp on it in the shape of a teardrop.  The captain notes Dane’s confusion (history check of zero!) - and says, this may not be common knowledge beyond the administrators of Thranish theocracy - but we are told if we see a tear symbol, that the council of cardinals is meant to be alerted through the proper channels and to pause investigation.  There is a rumor that a group, known as Miron’s Tears, that is a secret arm of the Church tasked with rooting out and removing corrupt individuals from the fold.  

Chibo opens the folio carefully with his dagger - “By the decrees established by Miron’s Tears, Minister Bruchwald has been put to death for the following crimes: …” with a long list of corrupt charges.  In particular, he is a judge who dismisses crimes for personal gain.  We gather that the captain is asking for our sign-off that this is a Miron’s Tears act, and if there is a followup then it is not a crime.

Artien and Rook investigate the body - no evidence of defensive wounds - looks like someone who can strike decisively who had a garrote and knows how to use it.  Pretty swift and silent death.  Given the position of the room, if the glazier was set up in the window, he could have waited for an opportune moment to move away from the window and apply the garrote.  Artien and Dane estimate the time of death to be between 9-10 AM.  Chibo notes no evidence of any work being done on the window, as if the glazier never even started (if he existed).

Chibo finds a few footprints of heavy boots associated with a tradesperson near the corner by the window - not really on the other half - door to window to desk - though this half is where the body was found.  No apparent sign of anyone else hastily going through documents.  No other tampering of doors or windows.  

Dane questions the captain - about whether someone might have framed someone as part of Miron’s Tears.  Artien mentions we need to know more about his role in the bureaucracy.  Chibo points out that he could be guilty of all of the accusations, AND still be murdered and set up as a coverup.

The captain tells us that Miron’s Tears has not carried out such a punishment since the start of SPAN.  Miron’s Tears would never act against citizens, only part of the church.  

Motive, means, and opportunity:
- All seems to point to the glazier.  
- But perhaps not is all as it seems.

- judges quarters? - both the corruptions and potential alternate motivations
- question butler?
- details on glazier - track him down?
- more about Miron’s Tears?

We proceed to question the butler.  We go down to the kitchen.  The butler is slender, in his 50’s, trying to maintain his composure.  Rook and Xotl question him to get a clearer picture.  Last he saw Master Bruchwald, he was in the den reading the paper as his normal routine, went upstairs to tend to his correspondence, and the Butler gave him his privacy until noon for lunch.  They ask about the glazier - he’d hired the glazier the day before, and let him upstairs as the master was reading his paper.  In retrospect he didn’t hear any construction sounds, and didn’t notice the glazier leave.  The description is nondescript in every way.  

They note he seems to be preoccupied and nervous.  Chibo notes a regret very close to the surface - he is internally running in circles berating himself for finding fault for allowing the glazier in without a reference.  He is blaming himself for not doing due diligence.  Chibo speaks to this insecurity and asks that he give us more.  “I was just trying to maintain the house!  I didn’t think this would happen - I had no idea - I served faithfully…”

Rook asks if anyone wanted him dead - the Butler assumed there were enemies, and he kept the Master’s books.  We latch onto that - Xotl checks the books with Chibo’s help - Bruchwald was definitely spendy, a decent salary and as though he’s got a couple of other sources of income either from old money or investments - no details, but nothing that comes up as a red flag.  Cross-referencing from the folio, it claims his spending habits are going toward consumables or objects but notably where it’s tracking is that it’s going to a third-party purchaser, and buying from an unknown source.  Nothing super suspicious.  Rook questions, who would be the beneficiary of the estate?  The butler hadn’t gotten to that - presumably his office would have that.  The Captain notes that the estate would be bequeathed to the Church.  

Dane asks the Butler whether he’d been meeting with anyone of import - the butler responds, he doesn’t know of anything he can recall that would help.  Dane leans in, not in an intimidating way, more conspiratorially - “He was taken by Miron’s tears” - the butler looks at him hopefully and says, “You know who did this?”  “We may but it is unfortunate that it may be that his death may be justified…”  A series of emotions flash across the butler’s face - ending with anger and disgust - “That is unbelievable!  You must be missing something!”  Dane mentions he may have been executed for corrupt activities.  The Butler doesn’t want his master’s murder to be subject to such accusations - that is not the man I’ve known for sixteen years.  

Rook and Chibo investigate the entrances - half a block away is an alley, and under a tarp we find a handcart with basic tools and a few panes of glass in it.  Chibo places an Alarm on the entry to the house, to alert the butler and himself in case of an intrusion.  It is getting late, but there is time to visit the judge’s office.

We find some cases dismissed, but seem to have basic legal reasons for doing so.  The main thing that would jump out is that he had a few cases over the next few days - most are civil, but one criminal case for attempted murder in a few days - Sansor Black - already been processed to be postponed and reassigned.  We don’t see anything in correspondence related to encoded messages or secret communiques - reasonably well documented and above board.

Dane proceeds to meet his sister.  He pulls up to the Wyvern’s Sting and waiting there is Radiance.  He tells her, “It’s been one hell of a day.”  He asks whether there is a more private place they can meet to chat.  On board the ship, he mentions Miron’s Tears.  She doesn’t seem to know anything about them - he describes his limited understanding of their role.  She says, “That sounds made up.”  If founded by Miron, at face value, the Church hasn’t been a governing body but for about 60 years - how would that fit into the modern theocracy.  She suggests that we should track down the killer and get him to present his case.

Then Dane looks a little nervous and asks what she knows of the heirloom.  He tells her a bit about it, that it is the finest of its type.  He knows Gravitas bequeathed it to him, but asks whether anyone else would know its history with the Shadowbanes?  She suggests Gravitas, Persevere, or maybe Clarity.  She asks, “is there something amiss? Can I see it?”  He tells her it may have suffered irreparable damage - but he seeks to either replicate it or develop a new family heirloom that can serve its same purpose.  She will keep this knowledge close, but notes to Dane that the longer he keeps it from Gravitas, the worse it may be.  

We all go to our lodgings, get a good night sleep.  The next morning there’s a knock on Dane’s door - it’s the Captain Edvirk - he’s got urgent news, a man matching the description of the glazier left on a House Orien carriage last night, to go south from Flame Keep to Olath - he boarded the carriage but left the carriage somewhere near Shadukar.

Suspicions: keep an eye on Sansor Black and Captain Edvirk before we leave town.

*****

Hot lead: glazier abandoning the carriage near Shadukar - used to be the jewel of Scion Sound, but was destroyed by Karrnath in the war - most Thranes consider it curse.  We decide to approach Shadukar on the Tide, using a stealthy aerial approach aided by fog.  Clearly the city used to have tall towers of white stone but is now burnt timber and ash.  The Orien road through the city has been abandoned and a detour road skirts the city about a quarter mile out.  Dane has heard that his great-aunt was present for one foray into Shadukar, a push toward the Temple of Silver Flame that had an extensive subterranean compound beneath - the story is that the major conflict occurred there, undead nesting there, before the Silver Flame were routed from the city by the undead.  He has also heard of subterranean camps on the outskirts of town used by the living, mostly criminals and illicits hiding out and keeping away from the undead.

We park the Tide in a relatively concealed cove a little north o Shadukar, and attempt to walk in unobserved.  The city is even creepier from the ground.  The wall is sagging and crumbling, particularly from the North and East where the forces of Karrnath would have overwhelmed the city.  An oppressive ambiance - clammy, dry, and small breaths of wind sweeping up puffs of ash.  We hastily come up with a cover story - we are on the lam from the Silver Flame, because we are smuggling were-Xotl and being paid by a hag.

Artien finds some tracks, and is able to lead us to the area where we’d expect to find some people.  We get to a wall, and there’s a grate across a culvert - Chibo notes four archers in the shadows keeping watch.  We approach the culvert, Rook in the lead, Artien hidden and marking the archers, Dane in the lead.  We stroll up to the gate, and a crossbowman steps out of the shadows and says, “state your business.”

Rook draws to a halt, and addresses the crossbowman: “travelers looking for a place to stay, and heard this was hospitable to people like us.”  The bowman counters, “Shadukar is hospitable to no one.”  The crossbowman wants to know why he should care.  Rook describes that we just need a day or two until the heat dies down.  Dane steps in and mentions gold if we can lie low for a bit.  The bowman asks about our Silver Flame tail, and suddenly recognition on his face as he recognizes Dane.

Black leather wings envelop Dane, and suddenly he transforms into Bleak.  He/she says “it is better to travel in disguise… and because you know me, you know I never travel without backup” and calls Artien from his hiding spot.  The bowman says “Verla’s gonna want to see you, but if you’re just wandering through we don’t need any tribute.”  He directs Dane/Bleak in and says “you know the way.”

We follow Dane/Bleak in.  Xotl runs up to Dane/Bleak and whispers: “what did you do to Dane? I will kill you”  Chibo notes that there is some sort of illusion magic with a dark flame to it, and notes this to the rest of the crew.  We proceed down the culvert, hear others farther down, smell cooking.  It’s dry and dark down here.

Dane leads us in farther, looking for something like a meeting room or space behind closed doors to hide out and chat.  We find a dry cistern housing a subterranean ramshackle tavern.  It is an older crowd, gambling, etc.  Across the way is a pair of heavy wooden doors inserted into an alcove, with a pair of guards - presumably Verla.

We take seats around a table in the cistern, and Chibo grabs some tankards and pours some beer from the kegs.  They sit in silence and party line a conversation.  Chibo notes that it seems to be Dane, and he seems to be surprised about it himself.  Chibo notes that it seems to resemble a Disguise Self spell - purely illusory - also getting a read off it, that I never had a chance to test Ahuatemoc but getting a similar read on the magic as to when investigated Xotl’s magic - not the same, but closely related.  It also occurs to Chibo is that those wings looked like Ahuatemoc’s, and that stories of coatl they are also capable shapeshifters.  Dane was in the embrace of anti-Ahuatemoc when we killed him and there was some sort of feedback.  

Dane understands that core to the Church of Silver Flame is the defeat of the overlord Bel Shalor, the overlord of corruption, the one that Tira Miron sacrificed herself to bind.

Chibo notes no telltale enchantment attached to this - his read is that if Ahuatemoc was corrupted by some element of Bel Shalor, that corruption has been bestowed on Dane but only as a boon - no strings attached.  Chibo notes this to the group - and Dane feels a sensation that he could potentially manipulate this.  He tries to change his illusion by granting himself a lizard folk hand, and Chibo notes illusory magic wash over him as his hand changes.

Chibo notes the one-eyed woman watching us, whisper something to the other guard, and enter the chamber behind the door.  Expecting that we will be summoned soon, we review what we know about Bleak.  A few key missions, understanding that she’s pretty brash and prefers to stay in her Changeling form.  We finish our drinks and approach the door.  The door opens, and the guard lets in Bleak, and one guard - she chooses Artien.  The room is well appointed for a culvert, and a 60-year old woman, deeply tanned and cragged, lounges on a couch.  She says “Bleak, it’s been some time, how long has it been?”  Dane says “far too long - good to see you” - she stands up to give a hug, and Dane deflects, mentioning our cargo.

The two discuss, Verla seeming amenable to helping us, though a little skeptical about her story.  Dane tries to follow up about her comment about rumors of the Silver Flame looking for someone.  Verla mentions they might show up and sniff around the temple.  

We make an excuse about our captive were-goblin to camp outside the culvert, and head out.  We creep toward the temple - clearly once a beautiful temple, 200 x 100 ft with arches and flying buttresses.  Still scorch marks with the white stone - no remaining glass - the roof has collapsed.  

Artien starts to explore looking for an entrance, while Chibo follows, eyes closed with his hands outstretched.  Artien notes nothing, but Chibo notes a chime/perhaps laughter.  Chibo steers Artien in that direction, and they both hear the sounds - and Artien feels as if it is something intentionally distracting us.  We feel as if something is setting us up for ambush.  We decide it’s time to get into the temple ASAP.  We wade through ankle-deep ash and weapons, though no skeletons or corpses.  We note the marks of radiant damage and a tarnished icon of the Silver Flame.  We continue to hear the sounds of chimes/laughter.  Chibo’s Eldritch Sight pings something on the edge of vision, but not enough to focus on - something he otherwise could not see.

There is a cracked marble slab that exposes a set of stone stairs leading down.  We descend into the subterranean area - it appears more like storage and functional space rather than catacombs.  The chime laugh seems to follow us even into the underground halls.  We reach a chamber with what appears to be tables and several entrances.  Suddenly the temperature drops 20 degrees, and Chibo’s torch flickers.  We make out humanoid shapes of shadow surrounding us.  There appear to be a dozen of them.  

Artien takes aim and opens fire, hitting one.  Chibo misses with his Eldritch Blasts, and Dane pulls his holy symbol to bless everyone, but notes that the shadows shrink away.  He instead channels his divinity and tries to drive the shadows away, burning away eight of them.  The remaining four attack - one hits Dane, the other three miss.  Xotl blasts one with lightning, and while it seems resistant it doesn’t quite take it down.  But then (fury of the small) the bolt bounces off a tureen and hits it in the back of the head, destroying it.  Rook casts a Booming Blade but his rapier passes through, diminishing the damage, and then Helps Dane.

Artien shoots at the one near Dane, dispersing another shadow.  Chibo tries a Toll the Dead, but they’re already dead, so… Dane destroys another, and steps through its space toward Chibo.  The remaining shadow and swings at Dane.  Xotl blasts it with a critical chaos bolt of poison, but it is immune, and a lightning bolt arcs from it to Dane.  Rook casts frostbite at the remaining shade, doing some damage; and then Artien finishes it off.  All is quiet, for a moment.  Then we hear a sound from the stairs just outside the room.

We hear a quiet weeping that escalates into a loud laughing.  







