Following the pirate adventure:

When we get back to port, we decide to turn Captain Day over to the Newthrone authorities.  Meanwhile, a government official, Sheriff Maynard, has been killed in the street in Prospect, a town in the Hope region of Q’barra.  The Newthrone authorities want to send us to Hope region to investigate the mysterious death.  An individual seems to have challenged Sheriff Maynard and told him to defend himself in the main street of Prospect, and with hardly a movement on either part, Sheriff Maynard keeled over dead.  This is a story we’ve heard variations on throughout Hope, and they feel our expertise may be of help.

Rinoa has family, Uncle Sazh, Aunt Ceres, Cousin Marko in the Hope region near Prospect.  

We take the Tide from Newthrone to a water body near Prospect and park it in place.  The town has a main street with maybe fifteen buildings.  No apparent House presence.  We’ve entered in adventuring gear to be somewhat less conspicuous, but displaying SPAN badges of office to show authority.  We notice us being noticed.  Chibo notices a pretty consistent tic of seeing us, seeing badges, and hustling away.

We look around for a deputy, or an undertaker.  As we leave the Sheriff’s office, a woman, Adele, approaches and says “If you’re looking for Sheriff Maynard, you’re a day too late!”  She directs us to Bones, Undertaker (on the other side of the building’s shingle, it says Bones, Doctor).

Inside, an interesting office space.  There’s a partition between the two spaces - one side has an examining table, on the other side has a cooling slab.  A tall thin man and a woman in a bonnet - Mr. and Mrs. Bones - they ask “Which of our services will you be needing?”  Rinoa mentions the sheriff, and Mr. Bones acknowledges he has the body but hasn’t begun embalming it yet.  A cold stone, normally used for refrigeration, has been jerry rigged to store bodies - lack of magical resources means some clever repurposing.  There is a small hole in the body’s chest near the sternum.  Mr. Bones says “damndest thing” - but wasn’t there to witness the death.  

Rumor has it that a woman in a long duster, had been in town for a short while (having visited on occasion over several weeks), she approached the sheriff, called him out for a duel, and a crack of lightning and he dropped dead.  The hole is larger than a rapier wound, with trauma inside, and no exit hole - and no cut where one would expect if a rapier had been withdrawn.  This does not appear to Chibo to be caused by a magical effect.  Inspecting using medicine skill, he taps into the hole and hears a metallic click, and he pulls out a chunk of deformed metal - like lead.  No magical reading whatsoever.

Dr. Bones assumes the woman in the duster stayed in the Inn, but doesn’t have any idea for what she was doing in town.  He tells us that a couple of miners from out of town brought the body in, he doesn’t know the names.  There will be an election for a new sheriff tomorrow.  The smart money for the new sheriff will probably be between Frankie Drake and Pete Arrow.

We venture to the Prospect Inn - a fairly typical saloon with a 15’ bar, a small stage, stairs up to a balcony that leads to 8-10 rooms upstairs.  The proprietor gives a small nod from behind the bar.  Dane addresses the barkeep - mentions that we’re in town investigating about the sheriff’s death.  He says the sheriff was a real pillar of the community.  Chibo notes someone at the end of the bar snort - paying a little more attention rather than intentionally ignoring us.  The man says “it’s a real blow to the rule of law in the area” - Ev buys him another drink and asks his name: Bart.  She pushes him about why he’d have disdain for the sheriff?  He’d been lording it over the people, thinks he’s the boss around here - he’s just a miner, we’d have to ask the people in town.  We get the impression that he thinks he knows something but he’s not sure he knows something.  

During this, the bartender has a little tic tapping his fingers on the bar, and a couple of card players are listening intently.  Bart says he doesn’t understand why he only ever drinks from the top shelf… seems a mite peculiar (perhaps a little money coming in on the side?).  Dane starts asking about witnesses, while Rook and Chibo strategically play cards with the locals (Marley, who was listening in, and Ross) shedding a bit of government money to loosen lips.  Ross was there for the murder, but prefers not to talk about it.  With some persuasion, he says there are more stories going around than people willing to say they were there.  The woman had been at the inn but never interacted with anyone, she went out and challenged the sheriff, a powerful crack, and the sheriff was down.  He was armed and facing her, from a distance, but only armed with a club.  She turned on her heel and walked in the direction of Pitchwall.  

Back to Dane: he asks the bartender about Adele, the woman from the street.  He schmoozes the bartender with his Diplomacy skill - and then asks about the woman passing through town - and casts a veiled threat that if we don’t get what we’re looking for, we’ll have to bring in more teams, which will dampen the economy here for a bit.  The bartender seems to hesitate, but gives us some info - she’d stayed here 4-5 times over the past few months - never ate or drank - the only odd thing was one time after she left, a smell of brimstone and a scorch mark on the desk.  He gives Dane the key to go check it out.

The desk appears as though someone’s tried to scrub out a scorch mark, and a couple of places where other small burns like cigarette.  A couple of indentations where a small tripod might have been placed above the scorch mark - if he had to guess, a small brazier with flammable material.  Also finds 2-3 raw pellets of metal, grain of rice sized, same kind of metal as in the body but much smaller and not deformed.  There is a chest that is open and appears empty.

Chibo and Ev go to the sheriff’s office to poke around.  Everyone else goes to the meeting.  In the office, still unlocked, and start to poke around a bit.  In the drawers, there’s papers, etc.  There’s a tarnished lock on one drawer, but with a couple of scratches on it as if recently pickpocketed.  Evertonette picks it, though it takes time - 10 minutes.  It frees up and we can open it; there does not appear to be a trap on it.  A number of files are inside; in the back, there’s an 8-10” gap - there’s a little dust that has settled, but an impression of a leather sack about a hand span across that used to rest there but is no longer there.  The files do not seem to have anything incriminating in them.  

In one of the cells, there appears to be a halfling-sized darting shadow of movement slip by - well hidden - and then three more skitter past.  

*****

Everyone else is in the communal meeting space.  Speeches, etc.  Glass breaks, green hands reach up, and a form appears up through the window - perhaps scales, and much too large.  It flows for far longer than it should as this giant python is pushed in through this window and acts as if it’s about to strike.  The commonfolk are panicking about the Scales attacking, mostly fleeing out the double door behind Rinoa.  She approaches the snake and attacks but misses.  The snake tries opportunity attacks on the fleeing commoners, and snaps down on his bicep, which balloons with venom.  The snake nails her with its coils - critical hit - badly damaged and grappled and restrained.  

Rook uses a Gust of Wind to blast the snake where it’s binding Rinoa to knock it backward.  Dane casts Guiding Bolt on the snake, misses, but then hits with a Spiritual Weapon.  

Meanwhile, outside: 
Evertonette peers outside and notes some halfling-sized scaly creatures with bows outside the common room, attacking the fleeing townsfolk as they exit the doors.  She runs out, takes cover between the door and windows of the sheriff’s office, opens the door, and takes a shot at a lizardfolk with an eldritch blast but misses.

Chibo sinks an eldritch blast at one of the small lizardfolk, knocking it dead off the balcony, and notices that these are not the four shadows he’d seen previously - they are slinking around a corner of the sheriff’s building.  The three snipers launch arrows at the fleeing villagers; the four sneaky lizards attack Chibo; three hit, but one is essentially dissolved by a Hellish Rebuke, and the rest flee.  Ev casts shatter at the retreating lizard folk and they are torn asunder.  

Back inside: Rinoa fends off the snake one more time.  Finally she hits the snake with her sword and lops its head off.  The remaining dragonfolk scream and flee into the night; Evertonette blasts one to bits before it can get away.

As the lizardfolk flee into the night, Dane uses Spare the Dying to prevent the villager from dying - the wound pushes out half a liter of venom.  We save all but two of the arrowed villagers, and begin to help the town clean up and calm down.

*****

It is dark.  We’ve just routed the Scales.  The townsfolk are in disarray and traumatized.  

The two sheriff candidates - Frank Drake  - visibly angry and looking for a target to take out his wrath - and Pete Arrow - Pete’s eyes are wide and looking around, scared but standing in a protective stance.  Frankie says this is not the first time this has happened in Prospect.  Newthrone is supposed to have them under control but we see what happens.  Pete doesn’t know what tribe of Scales they might have been, nor anything about the woman.

Rook notes they seemed to have a preference to head east.  Pete has no actionable intel on what’s out there.

Frankie has a little info on the woman and the incident.  Dane pushes him about the Sheriff’s reputation for the finer things - Frankie seems to not have been concerned about it.  Rook talks to the Mayor Phyr - no nonsense older lady with grey hair, trying to wrangle people.  She knows of the Stormhorn Clanhold but says they are in contact with Thronehold and may not be the most aggressive.

Drake disengages from Dane and interrupts - pushing to get a Sheriff appointed.  Dane notes he’s speaking with more authority than he might warrant.  Chibo from Soul Witness gets a read on Pete - he came out here with his family who was attacked by some sort of scales, his brother hid him and his family and he regrets not being able to protect. More about being able to protect himself and others rather than as a vengeful drive against scales in general.

Xotl pulls the fangs from the snake, each as big as a forearm.  He accidentally poisons himself on the fang… Chibo does a Read the Kill on one of the bodies - because it’s a whole corpse, he gets a decent signal:  The intercession was to the benefit of Prospect and SPAN; spooling back in the narrative, the lizardman and his friends have been watching the perimeter for some time for an opportunity - premeditated, but no impression that they’ve interacted with any humanoids, more like an opportunistic strike.  Little emotional read to latch on to - very cold, matter of fact, in that Prospect is seen as distasteful and they just want to eliminate it.  No evidence that they are connected to the woman or the sheriff.  

The Mayor gets the bodies to Bones, and gets the snake removed, and gets the meeting back up and running.  The Mayor calls the vote again, and Drake wins by a reasonable margin; she pins a badge on him and swears him in.  Drake makes a quick speech, things are gonna go back to how they were, business as usual in no time.  The crowd heads out into the night to return home.  Ev grabs Pete and has him sit watch with her as a consolation for not winning the election.

Some clarifications: the sheriff had a home; we didn’t find anything in investigation, aside from perhaps living a bit beyond his means. Ideas: maybe vengeance for corrupt officials?

When we awake, there’s a messenger, Dunk, from the Sheriff to meet him at the jail.  We gather Rinoa and Rook from their patrol on the way, and venture to the jail.  Drake is flipping through documents - he has some good news.  A miner came in last night - someone matching the assailant’s description is in a trapper’s shed not far south from here.  Rook and Ev point out that the Scales may still be lurking… so the sheriff just deputizes us, and we ride south.  By ride, I mean walk.

After walking south for a couple of hours, we turn off onto a game trail.  Rook and Chibo approach the shack stealthily, and Chibo sends Gose to stealth forward and investigate the shack.  Rook notes that Chibo’s eyes turn completely black, except for a band of gold dust, as Chibo enters her head.  From the shack, there’s a sound of something crackling - some flickering flame and a small sack of blacksmith coke, heating metal in a crucible.  

Dane pulls the sheriff aside and convinces him that killing is not on the table. 

We prepare to ambush her non-lethally, but Dane basically trips over his armor and she detects us.  Dane stands in the doorway, with Orders Demand, demands that she turns herself in.  She resists.  

Ev readies her wand.  Rinoa attempts to intimidate her, telling her she’s surrounded by SPAN and the new sheriff.  The woman maintains her cover, and responds asking who’s the sheriff?  Rinoa tells her, but no response.  Rinoa tells the woman she’s unarmed and approaches the shack.  Drake launches a crossbow bolt through the window and tells the woman she’s under arrest and resistance will be met with death.  

Dane approaches the shed, kicks in the door, hoping to cast Hold Person.  She’s kicked over a chest and is hiding behind it, holding an unusual wand with a bend in it, and an open tip.  The Hold Person takes effect.  Chibo warns the sheriff to lower his crossbow while she’s restrained.  

Rook runs in and wrestles the wand away from the woman.  It doesn’t resonate with him, so does not seem to be a spell casting focus.  Ev enters and attempts to restrain her, clumsily.  Rinoa runs in to help restrain her, and ties her up.  The sheriff gags her, and Dane releases the hold.

Chibo uses awakened mind to her: why did you gun down the sheriff?  She gets excited/agitated and asks our relation with this man (the sheriff).  She replies - what is your relation to the previous sheriff?  I say we have none - we were investigating his murder.  She says: Drake is a dangerous man, and we are very much in danger!  END SCENE

*****

Need to know: her name? Why the last sheriff, why the current sheriff?  Kela Vax.  I killed Charles Maynard because he was exploiting a position of power, turning a blind eye to the criminal group called the Black and she’s executing their agents. Drake is a known associate of the Black.  She’d hoped Prospect would elect someone.  The Black will do anything to turn a profit, a decentralized protection racket.  They move slaves through Prospect to dangerous mines and such.  

She claims to be working solo, taking up arms against the Black on her own.  Her expectation is that a fair trial is unlikely due to the influence of the Black - and no convincing physical evidence.

Dane suggests we fake a message from SPAN saying we need to take the prisoner into custody.  Dane uses Sacred Flame to make Rook’s SPAN pin glow, as if he’s receiving a communique.  Rook taps the “communicator” and acts as if he’s listening, and then responding to a SPAN commander; he then turns to Drake and informs him that we’re ordered to take the prisoner into SPAN custody.  Drake is skeptical and tries to pull rank, but Rook uses some legalese to try to make him back down.  It doesn’t work on him. 

Xotl uses Suggestion to tell Drake he should hand over the Sheriffdom to Pete Arrow, and come with us.  It fails, and Drake lunges toward Kela.  Dane casts Hold Person, and Drake freezes.  We tie him and gag him.  Dane bluffs that we already know about the Black, and that we were sent to rescue Kela.  He goes a little white, then flushes red, seals his lips, and glares at us.  

We take the two back to the boat ship, after Chibo uses disguise skills on Drake to make him look like a bad guy.  Dane suggests we draft a letter from Drake deputizing Pete Arrow… but without a writing sample, it may be overly complicated.  

Chibo then calibrates his Stabacus with questions about the relationship between Drake and The Black, and how our abduction of him affects our mission.  I see him the night of his election, writing multiple letters that get sent out in multiple directions into the countryside.  Today while we were out, a few who had been summoned by his letters have moved into Prospect and taking position, watching and waiting for his return.  

Chibo uses Eldritch Sight and Identify ritual to inspect the wand - it may be a spell that masks a magical aura.  It doesn’t seem to apply any of the typical magical rituals - metallurgic merits perhaps but nothing that reads like magic.  Kela says we haven’t extended a full measure of trust, but admits it is not magic - it is an Equalizer, and we should be very careful about where we point it.

Xotl’s insight gives him the impression that she is concerned about being at the mercy of a powerful and unpredictable adventuring group.  She’s keeping some things to herself, but for the most part not trying to antagonize us or give a reason to be upset with her.  

Kela says Pete Arrow is unlikely to be involved, and the Mayor may be aware but not involved.  Plan: Rook, Chibo, Xotl infiltrate town in disguise, with the intent of letting Pete and the Mayor know what’s up and enlist their help protecting the citizens and identifying the Black members.  Rinoa, Dane, and Ev will enter town with both Kela and Drake in tow.

We give Kela her Equalizer, and have her loosely bound ready to free herself if we come under attack.  

Two burly unfamiliar faces - one with an axe and one with a maul - approach Rinoa, Dane, Ev, the Drake and Kela - and ask they untie the sheriff.  Chibo notes several on top of buildings and balconies.  Rook casts Ice Knife at the two in the street - it hits one but they dodge the splinters.  Dane follows with a Guiding Bolt but misses.  He closes and uses Spiritual Weapon and catches the axeman by surprise.

The bruisers attack.  The axe misses Dane twice; the mauler misses as well due to the insane amount of steel on Dane.  Four bowmen attack Rinoa - two hit.  Two more attack Kela and they hit.  Kela fires on the bowmen that attacked her, one drops off the balcony, the other hits the deck to avoid hit.  Rinoa closes with the maulman and the axeman - she attacks the mauler.  

Chibo’s Eldritch Blast destroys one of the bowmen.  Xotl freezes the arm of another one and it falls off.  Three down, seven to go.  Rook annihilates another with a crossbow.  Dane misses with a Toll the Dead on the axeman, and again with a spiritual weapon.  Axeman misses once and then hits Dane.  Maulman hits as well.  The archers go for Kela and miss, Rook and hit, and Rinoa and miss.  Kela takes two shots at the battle axe - one hits.  

Rinoa Rallies Dane to regain some HP, then hits the axeman who is looking bloody.  Chibo blasts another archer with a beam of force magic.  Xotl follows up with by hitting another - and uses Fury of the Small to finish him off.  Rook launches at the axeman and misses, but uses the Help action to help the next attacker - and Dane finishes him off with Spiritual Weapon.  Dane then cures wounds on himself.

Maulman attacks Dane again, who is still standing.  One hit, one miss.  Kela shoots at Maulman and hits once.  The bowmen aim for Kela - she takes three of four shots in the chest, and falls backward, dropping her Equalizer.  Chibo casts Dissonant Whispers on the Maulman who takes damage and begins to flee.  Xotl splits his Ray of Frost and takes out two archers.  Rook nails Maulman between the shoulder blades and drops him; the other two archers are summarily dropped as well.

And that’s where we end for now… 

*****

Dane stabilizes Kela.  Ev brings back out the Sheriff.  The rest of us start searching bodies.  Clearly a rough group of people hardened to violence, decent armor and whatnot.  Doesn’t seem as if any of them were carrying particular correspondence on them, but had some coin.  The townsfolk start to re-emerge and the mayor approaches Rinoa: “I think this is gonna take some explanation!”

Rinoa mentions the Black, and the Mayor says most people who run a business know of the Black but don’t speak of them openly.  The mayor leads them in to the town hall, with Kela and Sheriff Frank both bound.  

Dane goes to recheck the sheriff’s office with Chibo.  Chibo notices a leather blotter and appears as though Drake had a heavy hand when writing; he takes a rubbing of the writing.  Fragmented but a decent record of the letter Drake sent out, calling for muscle to help manage the deal in Prospect, and the organizations are being protected, and concern about the presence of the SPAN legate team.  Also, clear intent that Kela is eliminated. We bring the documents back over to the Town Hall.

The Mayor tells us this is a challenging situation.  Drake is struggling and agitated; the Mayor directs us to take off his gag.  Xotl takes out the gag and casts Suggestion, suggesting he tell the truth; the effect settles in successfully.  Rinoa explains our presence, and our finding of Kela, and our understanding of The Black operating nefariously in the area.  And then the attack and our self defense in the town.  Ev chimes in saying the Black has undermined the Rule of Law in the area so their slave trafficking can go unhindered.  

The Mayor says the Black are a known factor and while unpleasant are a force of order.  But protection racket is one thing, trafficking is another.  She asks Drake, and he admits it - under Suggestion - calling the mayor naive and that the Black doesn’t give a damn about the town’s well being, just a profit.  The Black ain’t gonna let this slide!  Dane and Chibo come in with the evidence and present it to the Mayor as well.

We ask Drake about The Black - it is extremely decentralized, based on distribution and reputation.  He says Kela had the right idea about how to deal with them.  We wake Kela up, she sees Drake.  Xotl tells her Drake is being very compliant.  She begins to question Drake - how many members did he call in, how many reinforcements?  He says nearly everyone.  What time scale for retaliation?  He doesn’t know.  What would you do if you wanted to disrupt the retaliation?  Hide the bodies!  If there’s no word, there’s no problem.  Then make sure they can’t get another toehold - need a strong sheriff to keep an eye out and keep merchants from being exploited.

The Mayor seems convinced.  She is not going to stand for any human trafficking going on.  Ev offers to call in a SPAN intervention team, possibly a platoon to help protect the town until it gets back on its feet.  

Kela tells us about the Equalizer - given to her by a man who said he was affiliated with a group called the Disciples of the Peacemaker, who taught him how to mix materials and provide ammo.  Dane asks about the man and his org - she is skeptical but senses his motives are good.  His name is Henrique Ventura; she met him by chance on travels, no idea where.  She takes her Equalizer back from Xotl and puts it away.  

We find a nice crocodile-inhabited patch of swamp and take the bodies there; Chibo uses Speak with Animals to ask them to enjoy the feast and disperse the remains, with a suggestion that more might be coming if they do a good job.

We suggest Pete Arrow as potential sheriff, who is likely to be accepted once SPAN can send a squad to help enforce.  It also happens we are near the town of Blutheim where Rinoa’s family is, and King Sebastes gives us shore leave.  
