Once we reach a town with a House Sivis station, we check in with SPAN reporting our success briefly and immediately get a message in return: “House Lyrandar has lost contact with the elemental dreadnought Adamant. Currently patrolling Bitter Sea on humanitarian, scientific, and anti-piracy mission; heavily armed, potential flashpoint of an international incident if misused. Last known position north of Karrnath, near Lhazaar Principalities. Investigate, secure, and re-establish contact with House Lyrandar.”

We recognize that this is in the same area where we encountered the mystery submersible on our very first mission.  Chibo prepares by studying the bit of the code they had exchanged with the ship - the old Aundairian military code - to see if he can prep to break the code again.

We reach the area, and at night, we spot lights on the water - running lights - and approach from the air.  It is the Adamant, and intact, but no evidence of working deck lights, not under power, the three water elemental rings powered down.  Artien notes three or so figures moving around in the dark, near a trebuchet.  Rook takes the ship moving but out of the firing line of the trebuchet.  After trying several times to communicate with the ship, and no response, the ship launches its trebuchet toward us - more of a warning shot across the bow.

Rook tries sending a Lyrandar code specific to he and his sister: “Parry 3 o’clock” and the response is “approach.”  We cautiously approach and the gun ports open.  Rook adroitly dodges a series of trebuchet and arbalest shots, and a few ballista shots from the gunnery ports - no magical shot comes our way.  The siege staves would normally draw their power from the elementals.  

On Rook’s suggestion, Chibo flashes the old code down toward the ship.  The response comes not from the Adamant but from underwater and maybe 100 feet away; the response is “engage the enemy.”  Chibo flashes back, “confirm target, possible friendlies aboard.”  The response is: “vessel of war - collateral damage irrelevant.”

Artien, Chibo, Rook, and Dane prepare to drop down using feather fall; they fall like mother fucking ninjas to the deck.  As we stealth around the deck, we see each siege weapon manned by three people, Khoravar, in Lyrandar livery.  The uniforms look as though they are legit, the crew seem to know what they’re doing, but they seem to be somewhat mechanical - not as nervous as one would expect in a combat situation.  Chibo notes that one of the guys, just for a second, his shadow just for a moment moves independently on itself.  Artien notes one crew talking to another and notes what seems like a wet barbed stinger for a tongue, but no one can come up with an idea.

We creep our way down belowdecks.  We note a human and khoravar guarding the corridor but they haven’t spotted us yet.  Rook and Dane plan to step around the corner, Dane making a demand/show of force to make them more open to suggestion.  Dane steps out and immediately starts berating them for not being where they are supposed to be - down in the brig for an inspection.  One reaches for his short sword while the other has a flash of recognition and says “Tertius - you shouldn’t - “ and his shadow starts creeping around the wall, reaching toward Dane and Rook.  Dane uses his command to drop the crew member prone.  Artien steps around and readies his crossbow at the standing one, preparing an attack.

Dane lashes his thorn whip around the one drawing his sword, and draws him closer.  He then Blesses us and grants Rook a free sneak attack.  Rook slashes his whip at the shadow, cutting it but opening a matching gash on the prone man.  Chibo blasts the shadow with an Eldritch Blast and shoves it back ten feet, on the other side of the prone man, though it still seems connected and the man’s shoulder begins to bleed.  Artien hits the standing guy with an arrow from his readied action; it drops its jaw and a four-foot spiked tapeworm resembling Kraken’s Kiss shoots out of his mouth and misses Rook, and now is anchored into the wall.  The prone man rises and stabs at Rook; then from the other side, the shadow strikes out with a wet slap toward Rook.

Dane Tolls the Dead on the shadow, grievously wounding both the shadow and its host.  Chibo blasts the tentacle tongue, and takes it out, though it remains attached to the human.  Rook lashes out with his whip, and tries to command it to hold the shadow but instead it tears the shadow into shreds; the man it’s attached to is basically flayed.  Dane saves them from dying but we keep them tightly bound and unconscious.

Rook figures it’s some kind of symbiont perhaps from Xoriat, like his whip.  A Remove Curse would work, but none of us have that… We investigate the hallway and Chibo hears a sound of something moving behind a door.  Chibo tries to open it, but it is barricaded.  Rook calls through the door to see if there are any non-contaminated survivors.  We convince someone to open the door - a gnome, Heliotrope d’Sivis, opens the door and gives us some info.  Six days ago, everyone was confined to quarters, a few days later some people started walking around with weird limbs and growths, while others did not seem to be attacked.  At that point, he barricaded himself here into his quarters.  Two days ago, he heard screaming and explosions and the ship came to a stop.  

Rook grills him a bit - was anything unusual brought aboard?  Were there any unusual stops?  Fulfilling contracts with Morgrave University.  Chibo realizes that he could perhaps gain information from a Read the Kill to determine how to separate these symbionts.  He sees a vision going backward - how the creature currently has a tenuous connection to the host, but the connection is much stronger while the host is conscious.  While the host is unconscious, it seems possible to surgically remove it.  As Chibo follows it further back, it gets murky - crates fished out of the water - webbed, clawed hands pushing them - and three red eyes with heavy brows set into a mottled green slimy flesh.  As he views this, the three eyes he can feel on him directly.  And then we are all shaken as an impact strikes the Adamant.

*****

Some stuff happens, but Chibo is distracted by shiny things.  Battle ensues, Battle Gose blasts a shadow man to smithereens.  Other battle; and then Chibo blasts a caster badly pushing him back through a plate glass window.  Xotl notices a girl with hexagonal glasses hiding in a cabinet, and after the battle tries to mime at her to ask whether she’s infested… meanwhile Chibo notices, and offers his hand to lead her out of the cabinet.  

Her name is Amber Delacey, a doctoral student researcher at the university - 5-6 days ago, suddenly ordered confined to quarters, changed course, began being attacked, came here to gather notes on aquatic manifest zones.  We hide her away, heal up Dane, and get ready to climb the rigging.  We think better of it and instead take the stairs.  Dane takes the lead, and spots a trio of spectral forms come through the wall and fling a watching symbiont before he notices Dane.  We sneak past with the specters’ help - and bust out onto the command deck.  

Esra, tall half elf in Lyrandar blue, taking command and casting orders around the ship through a series of communication tubes.  She has a black chitinous symbiotic creature clinging to her torso, and a fine rapier in hand.  Five scaled clawed people arrayed in a loose ring around her, ready to deal with any incoming attacks.  Rook’s eyes are pained as he realizes she’s been possessed as well.  He mumbles under his breath “fight it, fight it… I know you’re stronger than this!” but she looks at him and says, “join us.”

*****

Five sailors with clawed gauntlets, surrounding Esra on a 3’ rise platform in the center.

Artien obliterates one of the gauntlet men with two bursting arrows, with shrapnel hitting the others nearby.  Rook feels the Kraken’s Kiss start to take over his mind but is able to anticipate this and push it down.  With his rapier, he bursts in for an overwhelming offense against Esra, using Booming Blade.  Despite his skill, the chitinous plate intercepts, and an eyed tentacle squelches out from her neck.  

Xotl takes aim at the two uninjured gauntleted soldiers and Esra - and then runs to hide.  But as he does, he ignites the desk and paperwork he is trying to hide behind.  Chibo and Battle Gose do a bit of damage but nothing final.  One of the clawed soldiers approaches Xotl’s desk but cannot access him; the other attacks Artien.  Two more run up to Dane, positioned with a gap between them, and attack him, hitting him with a couple of strikes.  The one that Chibo had pushed out onto the balcony stabs Rook in the leg.  Esra circles to put Rook between her and Dane, and then launches a lightning bolt that hits Rook, Dane, and Chibo.  Dane goes down.

Artien launches more bolts.  Rook blasts one clawed soldier, taking him out, and Esra, pushing away, with a Thunder Wave.  He then flies across to get Esra in a crossfire.  Xotl casts a Chaos Bolt at the guy searching for him.  He ducks back to hide, but sets another stations on fire, and on top of that, has a sudden confidence in his ability to be acrobatic.  Chibo stands over Dane to pour a potion down his throat, then sends Battle Gose to demolish two more clawed soldiers.  

Esra sees Chibo as a threat, and strikes at him.  He loses concentration on Battle Gose, and then Esra notices that Dane is conscious; she shifts her attacks to him, but misses.  Dane stands, and casts Hold Person, but with the help of her tentacled will shakes it off.  Artien launches two bolts, one of which grasps her with brambles.  

Rook whistles to get her attention, and when the eyestalk turns toward him, he shoots at it.  It may not be able to shoot another lightning bolt.  Xotl looks at his hands for a moment, then rushes forward to leap at Esra.  She tries to bat him out of the way, smiles briefly, then realizes that the brambles she is in are completely on fire.  Xotl scrambles and hides again.  

Chibo steps back from Esra to take aim, taking a pretty nasty hit - but then blasts her away toward Rook.  She tries to close with Rook, taking damage from the brambles, and slashes out at him, hitting for minor damage.  With her back turned, Dane casts guiding bolt but misses as the eye sees his movement.  Artien rushes her with his tomahawk but the chitinous armor intercepts the blows.  Rook notes that there is no sign of his sister, but then for a brief flash he sees the real her in her eyes, and then reverts back.  Rook cannot bring himself to hurt her, and drops his guard.

The armor on Esra twitches, and she sees an opportunity to reach into his wrist and pull out his lash - and Rook’s eyes glaze over.  

Xotl launches a chaos bolt against her back - and his crystal flares, giving a boost - but it still goes wide.  Chibo launches two Eldritch Blasts but they are dissipated by the armor.

Esra lifts Rook’s hand, and the tentacles extend toward Artien, slashing and clawing at him.  Dane calls forth his Spirit Guardians and they go to town on Esra.  Artien cracks her breastplate twice with his tomahawk, and then gathers his second wind.  

For a moment it seems as if Rook will lash out again, but in a slow, almost gentle way, the Kraken’s Kiss relaxes, then wraps around the shoulders, neck, and face of Esra.  Her eyes open and change, we see an expression of confusion and fear as she looks at Rook, whose eyes have cleared.  She tells Rook, “You need to manacle me RIGHT NOW.”

Rook commands the team to do so immediately, and as we do Esra reaches behind to slash the eye socket from her shoulder.  We shackle her as barely conscious Esra whispers to Rook, “Thank you - we have to end this - thank you.”  Rook has tears streaming down his face.

Artien and Dane keep point while Rook and Chibo and Xotl take Esra down to sickbay where the halfling Jellen was hiding.  With Chibo’s direction she makes a few incisions and we hear an immediate shift of the battle outside.  We hear cries of “we’re free!” and “what’s that? Get it!” - and then we hear the sounds of spirit sailors recede.

Jellen tells us she has this part handled, with the help of Amber Delacey.  

Rook steps out on deck and announces to the crew.  He takes command of the vessel under his membership in House Lyrandar.  He asks for the communication folks to establish ship-to-ship communication, and engineering to figure out how to steer the damn boat.  A soldier approaches, and asks permission to speak freely.  “The creatures that detached from our bodies have gone either overboard or hidden in the decks below.”  Chibo offers to help track down the critters, but Rook tells him he is needed in Comms.

In the Comms deck, Chibo and Rook are able to get the signal lanterns up and running but the elemental drive is needed to power the fancy ones.  We flash at the Aundarians - “Situation normal, ship is under our control.  Goals are same to stop Sahuagin, can we be of assistance?”

The response, from a largely metal craft that looks like two ships on top of one another in a torpedo shape - half again as long as the Tide.  It flashes back: “Proceeding to remaining front, request assistance.”  Our response: “Take point, once we restart our drive, we will follow.”

Rook summons the remaining Adamant crew, ordering them to maintain the ship until Esra regains consciousness.  We all return to the Rising Tide.  Rook glazes over in bliss as he realizes the Tide can potentially go underwater using the air elemental to create a bubble.  

*****

We know there are two Manifest Zones in the region - Lamania (plane of unbridled elemental nature) and Dolru (plane where spirits go until they pass on).  We consult the grad student on the fact that we’ve encountered an undead Sahuagin with a prophecy; she tells us the strength of the zones has been growing slowly, then dropping, which could be explained by a ritual that gets interrupted by the ghosts… seems as if a manifest zone of Eternal Sea could not actually flood the land… but there’s something distinct from a Manifest Zone called a Planar Breach - where the boundary between planes is torn open.  If that’s the case, then a breach to the Endless Sea, given enough time it could result in an infinite source of water into a finite sea.  

Out of an abundance of curiosity, Chibo convinces Xotl to let him try a spell on him, just as they are about to get to the bottom - Feign Death.   We then note that the ghost ship begins to arm up - and shapes moving in the water as it begins to launch arcane blasts.  A number of sharks, a few Sahuagin soldiers, and one burly Sahuagin with a war hammer.

Rook takes aim at the burly Sahuagin with his crossbow and connects; Chibo follows up with an Eldritch Blast.  Artien launches at a smaller one, then the big one with a bursting arrow that injures the little one and a large shark (Mommy Shark) nearby.  The big Sahuagin is now chum.  Dane steps forward and aims at Mommy Shark.  He then Blesses the team, and gives Artien another shot, who takes another shot at Mommy Shark.  

The sharks move over our heads, and two Sahuagin steps forward onto our deck to attack Dane, and one bites him.  Two more step out to attack Artien and one chomps him hard.  Rook steps forward toward Dane, and casts a ThunderWave that hurts Mommy Shark and two Sahuagin.  Chibo fails to Toll the Dead.  Dane Tolls the Dead on an injured sahuagin, killing it, and tries to Command the other sahuagin but fails because he doesn’t speak its language.

That sahuagin commands Mommy Shark to drop onto the deck to attack Dane; a smaller sharks drop on Chibo, Rook, and Artien.  Dane’s shark is in a blood frenzy and chomps him good.  Chibo’s shark misses him; Rook’s shark connects and bites him in the head; and Artien’s shark hits him as well.  One sahuagin emerges into the bubble and bites at Rook, and two more attack Artien.  Several more sahuagin, including two bosses, approach from the front but only Rook can see them.

Rook whips the sahuagin nearest him, and does some fair damage, then points out a weakness in its defense.  Chibo aims a blast at it, repelling it back, and another at Mommy Shark, pushing it away from Dane and Rook.  Artien strikes out at one of the sahuagin engaged with him, and then decapitates another.  As he steps away, the deck shark bites him.  Artien then takes aim at the sahuagin, punching it with two more bolts.  Dane Tolls the Dead on Mommy Shark, but she is unfazed.

A sahuagin attacks Artien with his spear, though his bite does not connect.  A shark strikes Dane but misses; two attack Rook but also miss.  The sahuagin attacks Rook and misses with spear but connects with a bite.  Three more approach, two attacking Rook and one on Dane.  Rook is pretty badly injured!  The two bosses move out of Rook’s field of view.  

Rook casts Thunderwave again, catching Mommy Shark, little shark, and three sahuagin.  Mommy Shark is killed and pushed back into the water.  Chibo blasts a sahuagin twice, then runs to the side to peer over, seeing two more sahuagin and a Grandpa Shark.  Artien uses a banishing arrow on Grandpa Shark, and Dane takes out one of the Baby Sharks.

Chibo is pulled overboard by a sahuagin and bitten; another closes with him.  With blood in the water, the two look like they are ready to go to town on me next round.  Rook is down!  Chibo Thunder Steps back to the ship, obliterating the two sahuagin, and then runs down into the hold to stop those entering from the breech.  Artien launches bolts at two sahuagin, killing one.  Dane runs downstairs to start his Silver Flame ritual.  

Chibo evokes Battle Gose in beholderkin form, in the water out beyond the sahuagin.  She launches two rays but only connects on one, dealing a massive blow.  Artien dominates Grandpa Shark.  Dane summons Ahuatemoc and asks it to go outside and destroy the intruders.  It bursts through the hull and attacks the injured sahuagin which then floats away.

Grandpa Shark flops onto the deck and attacks one of the sahuagin attacking Artien, swallowing it whole.  The other sahuagin misses.  Down below, the hammer sahuagin attacks the coatl, hitting once.  Chibo misses with two Eldritch Blasts but Battle Gose connects twice, doing significant damage.  Artien misses twice but commands Grandpa Shark to attack the sahuagin again.  Dane rushes to Rook and cures his wounds.  

Grandpa Shark bites in half the remaining sahuagin on deck.  Another shark bites at Battle Gose but misses.  The remaining hammer sahuagin misses Ahuatemoc twice, who bites in return.  Rook, having recovered, leaps from the deck, swimming at insane speed down to spear it with a Booming blade, finishing it off.  The remaining creatures flee.

As the Rising Tide approaches, Chibo observes the Manifest Zone expanding, oriented in the direction of our approach.  Sebastian the ghost projects from Le Sous Mort and comes aboard - with clear urgency, he says, “Allies, the ritual is occurring in a sea cave that is warded against our entry!  If you can take them we can protect the Rising Tide!”

As we prepare to act, we see the Manifest Zone tear into a Planar Breech, with a gout of water pouring through, containing cattle-sized anchovies and dog-sized krill and the like.  

*****

The captain of Le Sous Mort appears on our ship - and tells us this is the latest they have arrived in their ongoing repeated attempts to quell this ritual.  We enter the dark sea cave, able to breathe water, but slowed by lack of swimming speed.  Chibo uses Eldritch Sight to help track down the proper path through the labyrinthine cavern.  He notes that the water is supernaturally foul, and all the surfaces are slimy - he is able to use the foulness and slime to triangulate the direction in which the ritual is happening.  

Artien leads the way, with Chibo directing him.  We note a bioluminescent flicker, which Chibo recognizes as coming out of the head of a Sahuagin - charging up to do something magical.  He also notes two more hiding up above the back line, in murder holes.  Artien notes the first but not the others; he takes a shot at it and hits with one bolt.  Chibo shoots at the other two, hitting one and pushing it back into its cave, and then ducks behind Dane.  

The lead Sahuagin’s lure pulses and all but Rook become fascinated by it, and we have no sense of the danger we are in.  The sahuagins step forward and slash at Artien, hitting him.  One attacks Chibo wounding him pretty badly; the other two attack Artien.  Chibo disengages and blasts it twice but does little harm, and it comes back and savages him again.

Rook launches out from the darkness, clutching a blade shrouded in shadow.  He slashes the sahuagin attacking Chibo, with both shadow and boom, killing it.  Dane swims up to the ceiling and Inflicts Wounds on the injured sahuagin. Xotl casts a chaos bolt, and it rears back to sneeze and its brain comes out its nose.  The remaining sahuagin flees, dodging from attacks from both Artien and Dane.  Rook takes off after it and strikes with his shadow blade, and Dane hits it with a Sacred Flame.  Xotl launches a poison Chaos bolt, which hits but then forms a lightning bolt that strikes Rook.  The sahuagin explodes and Xotl’s wild magic suddenly makes us all vulnerable to poison momentarily.  

We swig a few potions to heal up a bit, and proceed down the tunnel, following the slime and foul water ever deeper.  We emerge into a large chamber, 60’ across and 45’ tall.  There is a wall-sized silver mirror, showing Le Sous Mort fighting against the creatures pouring from the breech.  We spot three sahuagin bedecked in different style than the rest - long staves with pincers at the end, and shamanistic robes, performing the ritual.  A voice in our heads says “excellent - an audience for my triumph!” as three vertically-oriented red eyes appear above us near the ceiling of the room.  

As the voice fills our heads, some of the team feel as if their lungs are filling with water.  Artien fights through it but fails to hit; Dane, sensing magic, dispels this magical illusory force on everyone.  The voice in our heads says, “enjoy being the first of your kind to drown in our conquest.  It will be quite the honor.”  

The thing in the ceiling emerges - a stout fish/squid torpedo-shaped mass of flesh and mucous with three eyes.  It settles its focus on Artien and he finds his allegiance turned - it is now his greatest desire to serve this creature.  Rook seeks cover, and turns invisible to move into position to attack the creature.  

Chibo blasts the creature on the ceiling, and hits it once, but is then sucked backwards into the cave and effectively knocked prone as he is spun upside down.  Xotl tries shooting at Artien to knock him free of the charm, and it works!  The three ritual-casting Sahuagin approach and attack Dane, twice with Guiding Bolts and one Spiritual Weapon.  Dane goes down.  

Artien launches a bolt at the monstrosity, and it pops out of existence momentarily.  He then swims up away from the tough sahuagin and launches an arrow at that.  It misses, but curves to strike one of the other two.  Rook targets the priestess attacking Dane, driving the shadow blade into her back.  Chibo rights himself and swims back toward the cavern, and blasts at the priestess.  

Xotl emerges and casts Haste on Artien and Rook.  One of the sahuagin attack at Xotl, but pop two of his Mirror Images and then strike him with a Spiritual Weapon.  The priestess lashes out at Rook, hitting him once.

Artien aims at the priestess and hits her.  The Aboleth reappears from its banishment and moves to close with Rook and hits with one tentacle.  Artien spots in the corner of the room a second altar - with a human skeleton arranged in just such a way, with the remnants of an Aundairian uniform.  Rook smashes the priestess with his shadow blade and she disintegrates from the pressure, then turns his attention toward the abolish, striking it, but in so doing, he feels his lungs start to transform.  He disengages and moves away from it.  

Chibo swims back into the room, and looks around, noting the sub-altar.  He is not sure exactly what it does, but recalls Sebastien’s words about something barring their entry into the cave.  Using mage hand, he shifts some of the bones and wood in such a way to disrupt the ward, and the water pressure changes and a magical hum, which he hadn’t even noticed before, ceases.  Xotl casts Fireball and catches the remaining Sahuagin and the Aboleth in it.

The two remaining priestesses close with Xotl, who is ultimately disappointed with himself that his fireball was not way cooler.  The priestesses attack him with tridents and tendrils of kelp, and he is completely wrapped up and paralyzed.  Artien pushes off the cavern wall and shoots at the damaged sahuagin priestess, taking it down with two arrows, which also frees Xotl.  He shoots at the final sahuagin but does not drop it.

In the mirror, we see Le Sous Mort crash to the seafloor, and Sebastien’s ghost launches out and somehow inhabits Dane’s body, reanimating him, with all his faculties intact.  Dane casts Guardian of Faith to create a hazardous zone for enemies in the center of the chamber.  It appears as a sword and shield, those of Dane’s grandfather’s that had been mounted above the hearth in his family home.  As the abolish attacks Xotl, the sword and shield lash out at it.  The creature lashes Xotl with its tentacles, hitting with all three. He maintains his concentration on his spell but succumbs to the disease from the tentacles.

Rook slashes at the remaining priestess and kills her, then moves behind cover and hides.  The enraged abolish lashes out with a psychic assault as it smashes Xotl to the floor with its tail.  Chibo bashes it with an Eldritch Blast and pushes it into the range of Dane’s Guardian of Faith, then moves forward to stand over Xotl.

Because Xotl’s Haste has failed, Artien and Rook are both exhausted for a round.  Dane steps forward and casts his Spirit Guardians, multiple copies of his grandfather, to take on this aboleth.  The spirits, and the Guardian of Faith, pressure him; the shield presses into its belly and then the sword punches through the shield into the belly of the aboleth, and its blood spews into the water around us.

Watching the outside battle through the mirror, we see it rage, but elemental sparks start to arc from the altar as the ritual begins to fail.  Sebastien says, “We must cease this planar rift - it must be sealed!”  A massive shadow falls across the zone of battle outside, and as the rift fritzes and rumbles and begins to close, an unimaginably large reptile sweeps through the rift into our world.  

*****

The reptile has a shell like a spiny turtle, a blunt-tipped snout, grey pebbled skin, and is the size of a tower of Sharon.  Before it can get to the Tide, we race out and leap aboard.  Chibo has taken a sample from the Aboleth.

Rook has sprouted gills, so begins drowning while approaching the helm.  He directs the elementals to shift the air bubble to not include the helm, and jams the ship into full speed ahead.  We narrowly avoid getting smashed by a clawed foot as it smashes the entrance to the cave.  The rush of water on the deck nearly knocks Xotl and Artien overboard, but Chibo mage-hands a rope to Artien while Dane thorn-whips Xotl to keep him on the deck (though it puts him out).

Rook, realizing that his sister’s ship The Adamant is on the surface and also that he can’t breathe on the surface, hews close to the bottom trying to find cover to shake the monstrosity.  Artien directs Rook toward a school of tuna and uses the Trident to command the chief tuna toward the monster, and the rest follow.  Rook dives the ship into a nook for a moment’s respite.  

Chibo suggests he may be able to Banish it given enough time to rest.  He begins to concentrate while the ship ascends, trying to lure it to the surface hoping the Adamant has been able to get back under way.  The others use every trick they have to distract or slow it, including letting Typho collapse the air bubble so its energy can be used to create a cavitation effect.  After a long (~30 min) chase, we burst forth to the surface with the monster in hot pursuit.  A final bursting shot from Artien knocks its claw away just as it is about to strike us.

Once in the air, the water that has now filled the hold slows us suddenly, but we hear a roar from nearby as the Adamant blasts the creature with siege staves and trebuchets.  The creature flees underwater leaving a lake’s worth of blood behind.  Rook opens the hatches to release the water from the hold, and orbits back toward the Adamant.  

The crew of the Adamant are cheering and hollering as we throw a docking line.  Rook’s water bubble is maintained as he boards the Adamant to check in with the crew.  They report that the monster appears to have made a full retreat.  Rook checks in with Esra, emerging from the command tower, with the appearance of strength and purpose hiding some pain and weakness.  She tells him how proud she is of his accomplishments as they discuss their wish to stop growing new body parts (gills/symbiotes).

As Esra leads us to the galley, an alarm blasts from the deck.  Le Sous Mort bubbles up from the surface, the crewmen salute the legates, and it submerges back under the sea for the last time.  

*****

The Jorasco healer takes care of our wounds and note that Rook’s gills seem to be a temporary aberration.  After three hours, they wilt and are absorbed back into him.  Xotl’s jellyfish state does not seem to go away, however.  

*****

Upon a long rest, Chibo jabs the point of the stabacus into the Aboleth’s liver sample, and sets the beads to ask whether 
The sea cave, sahuagin priestesses chanting an unfamiliar languages, but recognize a repeated name: Benthos - the aboleth.  New scene, around the familiar sarcophagus, more priestesses performing a ritual on the sarcophagus and its contents.  Three luridly glowing red eyes observing.  New scene - Le Sous Mort, in pristine shape, and then the wreckage of the ship drifting into the sargasso; holes in the ship reveal corpses of sailors - but a flash of the spirits of sailors.  Repeated scenes of the night sky - the moon Baracus is dark, and it pans down to the surface of the ocean, where the moon’s reflection would be, and a flashing code.  Scene shifts again - the high priestess is outside the sea cave, brought to the attention of some other sahuagin, a skeletonize corpse of an Aundairian sailor is used to cast the ward.  Benthos, a cyst on its side forms and creates a chitinous breastplate and other materials which are packaged in Lyrandar crates recovered from sunken ships.  Finally, we see the Adamant change course toward the Lamanian manifest zone, with the three water elementals attuned to help along the ritual and manifest the endless ocean.

It occurs to Xotl that ghosts linger as long as there is unfinished business.  Le Sous Mort was a whole mess of unfinished business, but seems to have disappeared…. Is the Kaiju dead?  Not sure but evidence points to yes…

*****

We make our way to Stormhome.  The Medani and Tharashk scour the ships for any remaining symbiotes, destroying all they find.  There is a brief scene where the Legate Team is given a commendation by House Lyrandar, granted by Rook’s father.  A Throne Room Fanfare scene where we are all given medals, and Rook’s father clasps Rook’s shoulder - he tells Rook, once his assignment is done, he would welcome Rook’s advice.

We cut to Jorasco hospital on Stormhome.  High ranking Jorasco members standing around Xotl concerned.  The medics’ furrowed brows and shaking heads.  Chibo corroborates what the Jorasco healers are thinking - it would take very high level magic to create such a curse, beyond the skill of Dane or even Ahuatemoc can deal with.  

A human female nurse with cat-eye eyeliner and tiger striped scrubs comes to tend to him.  Her hands seem to be backwards.  She says, “you seem to be in something of a bind…”  “I don’t think this is going to be your end - you’ll just linger along like this indefinitely…” Xotl says, “I don’t know what I’m going to do,” to which she smiles and says, “perhaps I can help you…”

Xotl narrows his eyes and says, “what do you want?”  She says, “Any random person can come by and pluck this stone from you.  I prefer that you maintain your hold on it.  Do a task for me and I will resolve this situation.”  “What is the task?”  She presses her hands together and separates them, revealing a box.  “Hide this in the hold of the Rising Tide without opening it.  It will not harm you or your ship.  I will know when it is done and return to fulfill my end of the deal.”

After she leaves, Xotl shakes the box like a kid at Christmas, and notes that sometimes it thumps but that’s it. He hides it in his hoards person bag.  The next day he recruits Loz and Itzli to walk around behind him with buckets of water as he walks through the city back to the Tide.  He approaches Chibo and they discuss options; Chibo suggests an onboard aquarium like a Guild Navigator from Dune.  Dane uses the Triad to bring in a scholar from Arcanix to examine Xotl for aberrations.  

The scholar explains - the aboleth are a creation of the Daelkyr who came to Eberron to shape it to their whim.  The Aboleth are the most closely reflective of the Daelkyr themselves, an inherent warping energy that twists flesh and their thralls are known to degrade to scum or chitinous creatures.  This is not that - it is a quick and potentially irreversible effect - possibly magics wielded by the giants of Xendrik or elves of Aerenal or perhaps the dragons of Argonnessen.  He knows of no solution available on Khorvaire.

(Chibo tries a Read the Kill and finds it would take at least a 6th level spell, Restoration or the like)

Xotl doesn’t want to live like this, so he stashes the box: he leaves Chibo’s chamber, tells Loz and Itzle to meet him on the top deck, meanwhile he goes back to the hold, in the middle of the midden-like maze, there is a dog cage with a doll in it - he hides the box inside the doll and roughly stitches it back up.  He goes back to Chibo and suggests it’s a good time to leave the ship - it seems haunted.  Suspicious but not sure, Chibo takes a look around and then goes out to town to hang out.  Xotl lobs some fireballs into the hold to ensure the ship will stay in dry dock for a few more days, then turns invisible and flees back to the hospital.  But the nurse is nowhere to be found.  

Rook is beside himself with astonishment and then anger - this is the safest port in the world.  He is immediately suspecting foul play, and summons all to a meeting.  Chibo mentions that Xotl had come aboard, mentioned something about not being a good time to be on the ship, then leaving shortly before this fire shows up.  

Chibo and Rook investigate the fire to determine the source and whether anything is out of place.  They determine it was three fireballs cast by a small creature.  It’s time to have a word with Xotl.  Xotl comes clean about hiding the box and the Rakshasa and he wanted the ship to be empty in case the box exploded.  The non-jellyfish based crew go back to the ship to find the box.  The plan: Dane casts Death Ward on Chibo, and Chibo burrows his way through the tunnels to the cage and casts Tiny Hut around himself and the box.  There is no magic apparent.

Xotl, meanwhile, is having nightmares about the night hag from the Obstabatory.  She has a gem and chain around her neck on top of her dress.  Xotl finds himself hanging upside down from a tree, and the hag incises around his wrists and ankles, then connects the incisions and rips the skin off of him.  He wakes in horror, feeling like his flesh is damp with his blood, but it is just the damp rags.  He casts off the rags, and realizes his flesh has been restored.  

Meanwhile, back to Chibo.  He opens the box, and inside is a slip of paper with the phrase, “your cook is a spy.”  He drops the Hut and messages this to Rook and Dane and obliterates the note.

Questions (once Xotl returns to us):
- did the night hag heal Xotl, if so why?  She also helped with the Obstabatory episode.
- if the night hag healed Xotl, did she disguise herself as a Rakshasa (why? Maybe to point us in a direction)? Or is she working with someone else?
- assuming the night hag, or a partner, had Xotl plant the box, why are they wanting us to know about Rosa?
    - one option: sow discord.  But that seems to be going to a lot of trouble.
    - another option: it is true.  But then who is Rosa working for, and why is the night hag opposed/how does this benefit her?






  

