After the conclusion of the Bloodforge Posse adventure, we are called back to Thronehold.

Evertonette receives a letter from SPAN in Thronehold. It contains orders dispatching LT-031 to Widebridge on the Brey River immediately. Thrane has requested this Team’s assistance in addressing a threat to the local populace. Legate Dane is appointed operational lead on this mission; deliver the enclosed letter to him. The letter is sealed with orange wax impressed with a coat of arms depicting two flaming swords crossed in front of a tower.

You variously know that Widebridge is a small town spanning an important overland crossing at the border between Thrane and Breland. Under Galifar, each side of the river claimed half of the town, but control of the bridge was hard fought during the Last War, with Thrane retaking it in the final years until it was confirmed under the Treaty of Thronehold. Both banks remain a Thranish garrison.

Evertonette notes the seal on the letter before handing it to Dane.  It is the sigil of House Shadowbane, a family go-to group of templars to “get things done” - way back in the family they had been part of the Silver Flame inquisition that drove the Lycanthropes out.  Currently led by Gravitas Shadowbane, and his wife Penitence, kids Allegiance, Diligence, Endurance, Ordinance, Radiance; Persevere, and Clarity are Gravitas’ siblings also with roles.

Dane reads the letter and looks nervous.  Evertonette probes him but he successfully evades her questioning.  He runs to his room and seems distraught.  After dinner, Rinoa and Chibo meet up with him and start to ask about his disposition.  He dissembles, and Rinoa and Chibo both fail their insight rolls.  But Chibo uses Detect Thoughts and gets: “I don't want to see them!” And “Persevere Shadowbane, Endurance. Radiance.”

Ev follows up with Dane later and reveals his recognition of the Shadowbane sigil.  Dane is distressed to know that Ev knows.  Ev reassures him that she’s on his side and that she thinks there’s more to the story, and she’d be happy to help navigate it.  Dane sits heavily and invites her to take a seat.  After some hedging, Dane admits - HE is Ordinance Shadowbane.  Ev follows up - why so nervous now?  Dane says that he no longer sees eye to eye with them.  Why Widebridge?  Uncle and two siblings are investigating the return of what, during the War, they’d called the Mist, that occasionally shows up and disappears or maims people indiscriminately… and feel they need Dane’s help as he had investigated it in the past.  She probes - how much of this will he share with the rest of the crew?  He is still deciding… She tells him she will respect his decision and leaves him.

Dane calls on Chibo and asks him about his use of the phrase “persevere” - Chibo pushes back that his lack of candor was disturbing, and after a while, admits that he did read Dane’s thoughts… Dane mentions that he finds it disturbing and Chibo promises he won’t do it again.

A couple of hours before we arrive, Dane calls us all together and sketches a detailed map of the area, from his memory, inexplicably.  He then explains his origin, the family lineage, and the Mist issue - in his past involvement and research, he found it seemed to be controlled by a woman who was subsequently jailed, and supposedly had died in prison.  There’s also a local superstition that Death Itself stalks the Mist - if you’re in a building you’re safe but if you’re outside you’re screwed (cannot cross the threshold).  Rinoa knows about the perils of fog and mist in battle, and Chibo suspects there may be some magic element at play here - though the area Dane describes is much larger than any effect of spells he knows.  Finally, Dane emphasizes that we should not get involved in his family matters…

*****

As we approach, we see a small town, population ~60, split astride the river, with a 50’ wide bridge between the two sides.  We park the ship at a dock on the north (Thrane) side.  We spot on the south bank a couple hundred yards out - an unusual sight: a structure(?) the size of two tour buses side by side, shaped like a bulette with treads with 8-12” claws and a sleek matte black finish.  The fin looks like a pivoting shield to protect a wielder of a very noteworthy, top of the line, post-war siege staff.  We suspect it is a highly specialized elemental wagon of some sort, a mobile fortress.

Dane, as team leader, sets objective to track down Persevere and get the low-down.  As soon as we park, they’ve already known we were coming and three armored people approach on the docks: a heavy salt-and-pepper bearded man (Persevere Shadowbane, Dane’s uncle), flanked by a tall man (Endurance) and shorter woman (Radiance) with close-cropped hair and green eyes with scimitars.  Persevere leads us to a garrison barracks on the bridge; we cram into a meeting hall around a war-room table.  

Persevere leads a briefing: this town guards against possible incursions by Breland (though not allowed by the Treaty).  Xotl asks about the tank - Persevere mentions it is owned by an adventuring party.  We all groan.  Endurance tells us they call themselves The Profusion; they are not here at the behest of the Shadowbanes.

A little over a week ago, the mist rose again.  People who were in the mist vanished - 3 people the first night, and another the second night.  The mist has risen twice again since then, and they have confirmed that if indoors, people are safe.  Once early morning, once late afternoon - no particular pattern: sunny, rainy, windy, etc.  People on vessels (belowdecks) do not seem to be affected.

Dane (Ordinance) suggests that if the intel he’s known about the Keeper is not accurate, then perhaps she could still be out and about.  Persevere says the word came from a cardinal, but Dane responds to that with brief sarcasm.  Dane says she was the key, but he did not know how she did it.

Persevere suggests they go with the assumption that it is a defunct Brelish magical weapon, and that its enchantments may be failing and misfiring.  He wants us to go into the community to identify where such a weapon might be housed, and how we can disable it.  Barring that, if we must, we will forge into the mist to engage whatever threat head on.  Dane suggests that this would not make any difference - other capable groups have met their ends.

We make our way across the bridge to check out the Keeper’s old residence.  The bridge rises about 15’ above the water.  At the residence of Marcelyn Stoub, the Keeper, a ramshackle shack on the water’s edge, there’s an overgrown tree and a boarded up well, and houses on either side.  The shack has a stone fireplace with smoke coming out of it.  Ev knocks and an older man with a hunched back, leaning on a cane, comes to the door.  He know Marcelyn, and moved in after she disappeared.  The place is owned by Nadine Sharp - a good landlady.  Rook asks if anything had been left behind… nope.

The man mentions that another group had come by earlier in the week - presumably The Profusions.  Dane steps forward and says this was the advance team, and we are just following up.  The man recognizes Dane, but knows him as Ian, from his days when he was undercover looking for the Keeper.  We pass it off as if we are just now investigating her disappearance.  Xotl unsubtly brings up the Mist, and the man says that’s all anyone’s been talking about recently!

Chibo checks out the well, and it’s been long boarded up.  No signs of disturbances.

We decide to go confront The Profusions.  They are operating under the Qarth Edicts.

We head toward the Tank (The Fallenstar).  It’s not as big as the Rising Tide but far more massive.  A hatch opens on one side and exiting we see Dagmar, Ritzsimmons, Kazan, and Maeladonna who we have not yet met.  Chibo notes Kazan has an owl on her shoulder made of origami, with symbols on the paper.  She also has a couple of spells active - pretty sure one is detect magic and detect thoughts; she messages to Chibo that they seem to be very well matched...  Maeladonna also is aware of Chibo’s mental presence and asks him to leave her mind - she seems well warded.  He switches to Dagmar (as Ritzsimmons is probably also warded somehow?)

Dane softens the tone - he tells them a bit about his past experience with the Mist and the Keeper.  He says we want what’s best for the region, and the realm, and stop this mist.  

Maeladonna tells us they suspect that the Keeper was a Brelish agent; they found some correspondence in the mantle of the house: the Mist needed to be fed with regularity; the magic is misbehaving, related to the need of whatever is in the mist to feed, and a marked correlation between the Mist’s rising and the fact that it hasn’t been fed in a decade.

We make our way back to the Rising Tide, and on the way back, Chibo notes a humidity and then an ambient haze congeals out of nowhere.  Through Eldritch Sight, everything is suffused with ambient conjuration magic - we are pretty exposed on the bridge but there is an old woman with a cart of turnips half way.  

Ev and Rook run out onto the bridge to save the woman by dumping the turnips and tossing the woman in the cart and running back.  Xotl casts Haste on them both.  They are on their way back, and reach the rest of us, when a long-necked, slimy grey and pink, with a white-beaked head tries to snap at them - and that’s where we end.

*****

Ev hears a heavy weight on the side of the bridge.  She tells the woman to run to the nearest house, and draws her sword.  Then she casts shatter in the vicinity of the beast.  Chibo launches a couple of Eldritch Blasts at it.  Xotl hides and casts an illusion to scare off the vampires.  Rinoa slashes a couple of times with her sword doing tremendous damage, chopping off its head; but something wraps around her ankle trying to penetrate her armor.  Two more tentacles reach out for Chibo and Rook; the one attacking Rook connects.  

Rook slashes with a Booming Blade at the tentacle attacking him.  Ev slashes with her rapier and baton at the tentacle attacking Rook, and drives the tentacle away.  Chibo opens a portal to the void, trying to pull the creature into it while we make our escape.  Xotl stealthily escapes, while Rinoa disengages and pulls Chibo to safety.  The beast attempts to attack Rook, and grabs him once again and pulls him to the edge and into the Hunger of Hadar.  Ev blasts and chops her way to Rook and cuts him loose, dragging him to safety as the rest of us lay down suppressing fire.

As we all get inside, we notice Dane and the old woman are not in the same place we are.  Multiple creatures seem to be moving around the barracks we are hiding in.  The creatures seem to use the tentacles to feel around in the mist, while the head seems to be using hearing and smell to identify targets.  As Xotl approaches a window, a tentacle slaps against the window and we see three-inch lamprey-mouth suckers on it as it tries to find a way in.  

Running a Read the Kill on the blood and debris, Chibo gets three images, dragon marks - a least mark of the storm, mark of shadow, and mark of handling.  It may be a construct of some sort.  Chibo and Rook confer to see if there’s some way Rook can use his dragon mark to control it in some way.  The mark may be able to affect a focus item, so there may be a dragon marked item we can use to control it.  But what about the mark of shadow?  Scrying and illusory magicks - house Phiarlan - illusions for entertainment etc.  Their logo is a five-headed hydra to represent the five domains of entertainment.  This creature seems to be some kind of hybrid of a hydra and a kraken, though not a real kraken since we would be dead.  

Rook is deeply offended because it seems as if Lyrandar must be involved, and created in the time in which his dad has been leader of House Lyrandar.  Still unsure of why the Shadowmarked house would be involved.  Maeladonna is of the Shadow Mark house.  

We consider the Keeper further - her involvement, and potential ties to Breland.  Is there some sort of Dragonmarked house consortium?  The Brelish intelligence agencies are known to be very effective - their core competencies were industry and economic power (eg. Sharn), and extremely good intelligence/espionage - the best non-Dragonmarked spies and investigators.  

The shadow mark gives us a cue to the hydra nature of the beast; Dr. Coelom specializes in hybridizing, but House Vidalis is about controlling animals.  When the mist is inactive, it’s like a life support/sustaining energy, but when the mist is released, it releases the creature from its dormancy.  This seems to be a well trained beast, unable or unwilling to violate property rights.  

After 45 minutes the mist recedes; we take a short rest.  We reconvene with Dane who must report to Endurance while we go to further investigate Stubb’s shack.  Xotl barges in and starts to rummage around, finding some hemp and a rusted carabiner/hook behind a loose brick in the hearth.  With Rook’s guidance, Chibo looks around for any other clues and finds a loose floorboard with loose earth underneath, hiding an old metal coffer 30 gp in circulated Brelish mint, which he hands over to the old man.  Chibo examines the mantle further and confirms that it is empty, but that what the Profusions probably thought was just old paper is actually rotted hemp from probably a rope attached to the hook.

This gets us thinking about the well.  We open it, Chibo pops Gose into existence down the well who climbs deeper in.  It is clad with flat stones and leads to a muddy bottom.  At the bottom it doesn’t appear that there is anything promising at the bottom.  Xotl starts to rappel down, and Evertonette holds the slack end of the rope.  At the bottom he starts to dig but is pretty sure there’s nothing else in the muck.  Gose climbs back out, checking stones along the way, and Chibo notes a flash of magic from Xotl - his crystal is radiating some sort of magic - his head is turning away from part of the wall as if forced, but he can’t overcome this.  After we pull Xotl out, Chibo drops down on the rope to the same spot - the stone is lined in lead, but just inside is a large conch shell radiating conjuration magic.  He grabs it and gets Ev to pull him back out; and he hands the shell over to Rook.  

The conch shell seems to be a perfect symbol for this - as a focus, as an instrument of calling, as a protection and nourishment as we considered the relationship between the fog and the creature.  Rook is sure he could call the fog with the conch shell, and thus summon the beast.  On the other hand, his dragon mark could also allow him to call the creature while suppressing the fog.

To follow up: why is Xotl’s crystal preventing him from seeing the hidden magical item?

*****

While we wait for Dane, Chibo examines Xotl’s crystals - irregularly shaped with facets, visibly shifted its facets after recovering it from Toby.  The orientation of the facets before and after seemed if not mathematical, some quality to the way they are oriented - as if the way it forms, the edges and axes are like playing tricks on your eyes, almost Escheresque, translucent behind an oil-slick sheen on a blood red surface.  It radiates very strong magic - more powerful than the drive of the rising tide.  A lot of every school of magic, but may be dominated by either evocation or enchantment (most active).  But there is a massive, subtle abjuration covering it entirely.

Chibo summons Gose and asks how the crystal relates to That Which Is Hidden.  “My knowledge is incomplete, all I know is that is anathema.”  Would it be anathema for Chibo to touch it? “Inadvisable.” Would it be anathema for Rook to touch it? “irrelevant.”  Awakened mind toward the crystal, I feel more like I’m being subtly being deflected or repelled.  Rook approaches, Xotl reluctantly hands him the crystal.  Rook notes it has more heft than a dragon shard, and feels some resonance with it - less like a crafted spell focus, but potential power.  It feels like the potential of a bound air elemental - a reservoir of power that wants to be released - that wants to do something.  Most immediately he can tell if he were to attune to it, it would offer him a not-inconsequential surge in his power to draw on.  But that would remove the attunement to Xotl. He hands it back to Xotl who puts it back into its harness. 

Meanwhile, Xotl inspects the conch shell but notes nothing other than his immense curiosity to blow it.  Rook grabs it from his hand quickly in an awkward wrestling match.  

The rest of the group meets back up with Dane speaking with Persevere etc at the garrison, and let them know what they’ve found so far.  Persevere is eager to confront this head on.

We decide to approach the Profusions just an hour or two before dawn to invite them to participate in the attack.  We are met by three of them - Gilgamon, Beausoleil d’Cannith, and Salk d’Jorasco.  Dane tells them a battle will occur in an hour, and we’d like to talk with them about it.  Dane tells them we believe they are here for the same reason as us - and describes our plan in terms of exposing the creature and our responsibility to ensure the protection of the people of Widebridge in whatever fashion is necessary.  Dane mentions we don’t know their purpose here, at which point Chibo casts Detect Thoughts on Gilgamon.

Gilgamon replies they are authorized by the Qarth edicts to pursue war criminals, but that if this is a monster their mandate does not apply.  Chibo gets that Gilgamon wants us to ask for his help, and to sweeten the pot.  Dane comments that any contributions will be acknowledged; Gilgamon warms up to it and says “as long as it is understood that we will not be condemned for firing from Brelish territory into Thranish territory.”  He also wants to know about the creature, and more about our control of the mist.  We give him some details but don’t give details about the shell; Chibo says “when you see a mist-free monster, fire on it…”  Gilgamon walks off thinking “that was frustratingly withheld”; Chibo Awakened Minds him “likewise, that goes both ways.”


Dawn arises.  Everyone is in place; Persevere gives a big speech about the Silver Flame and the archers set flame to their arrows; Radiance draws her swords and they light ablaze with alchemists’ fire.  Rook blows the horn, and the water starts to vibrate and thrum.  We see a forest of pink and grey reptilian heads erupt from the water and its tentacles grab the bridge and pulls itself toward the bridge.  Its body is about fifteen feet long, while its heads and tentacles can reach up to about 50 feet.

Evertonette launches a couple of eldritch blasts and steps forward into the fray.  She gets bitten, as does Dane, along with a tentacle that misses.  The beast attacks the rest of Dane’s family and manages to drag Radiance toward the edge of the bridge.  Dane casts Spirit Guardians - what appear to be angelic figures, including a large grizzled figure with a massive spear and a female with a shield - idealized manifestations of his family members.  He moves to rescue his sister.  

Chibo casts Hunger of Hadar on it - an inky blackness, echoless, with a high dissonant chime just barely in the range of hearing, centered on the creature’s center of mass.

Rook tells the interns to target the nest of heads, and draws upon the ice elemental Agawa to channel energy into yard-long icicles that are needle sharp and barbed.  The two lances penetrate the darkness and we hear grunting noises of pain.  Xotl hits the beast with two scorching rays.  The Shadowbanes - Radiance hacks herself free and moves to safety, stabbing a head on the way.  Endurance moves to block a head from Evertonette and strikes with his sword.  Persevere pauses momentarily, gathers himself, and cleaves through two heads with a single blow.  

Evertonette is not pleased by being shown up by Persevere.  She casts shatter, knocking a number of heads, though none of them drop.  She gives inspiration to Dane.  The Spiritual Guardians and Hunger of Hadar both hit the creature, and then a tentacle drags Dane off the edge of the bridge into the water.  Evertonette gets pulled to the edge of the bridge.  Dane, from the water, under the effects of water walk - getting himself to the water’s surface.  He casts Slow on the creature - a huge advantage for the crew.  Chibo launches a couple of marginally effective Eldritch Blasts, but Rook encourages Agawa to launch a couple of bolts that free Ev and Dane.  

Xotl nails it with a chaos bolt, and we ran into dinner time…

*****

Persevere takes some severe blows, but reaches over the bridge to cast Sanctuary on Dane and Lays On Hands on Evertonette.  Evertonette leaps onto one of the necks and curses it - but fails to hit with a bonus attack from Hawk’s Reply.  The beast, cursed, cannot act - and is subject to the cold and acid effects of Hunger of Hadar.  Unfortunately, it breaks the Slow spell.  Chibo hits it with a Dissonant Whisper.  Rinoa leaps from the ship, drops sword first into the center of mass, then leaps nimbly off the beast.  Meanwhile, the Fallen Star fires up and launches a barrel-sized mass from a distance, striking the center of mass where the beast starts to smolder and blister.  

Much mayhem ensues, including a fire buzzsaw from the Fallen Star that lops off many of the remaining heads.  Finally, all the heads are dead, but then a single massive head rises from the water.  Ev and Rinoa leap onto the head, doing brutal damage to its eyes; Persevere leaps onto the center of mass with his great sword, cleaving a giant gash nearly through the neck.  Chibo tolls the dead destroying one of the eyes; the Fallen Star launches another projectile that breaks through the neck.  Two more heads begin to rise from the stump, but Xotl fireballs the stumps and the beast drops into the water.

Once we are back together, we kind of heal folks up, and Chibo wants to do a Read the Kill on it.  Rook uses the air elemental to create an air tube to the bottom, Ev drops down, ties a rope around the neck, and uses the Walk on Water still active to float back to the surface.  Chibo does a gory Read the Kill on the decapitated head, and Rook directs the goblin interns and the aeroines to strip the skull so it can be mounted as a figurehead on the front of the ship.

The Read the Kill:  He pushes the stabacus through the optic nerve and focuses on that.  A dark cave, a sense of presence.  As he is getting his bearings in the cave, heavily feathered bodies around slashed and strewn around.  A feathered figure walks in - he is filled with a thrum of terror, and then he realizes it is Gose.  In the faintest light, a flash of silver, and Gose disappears.  He turns to the flash of light, sees Maeladonna, with a journal, she looks at it and scowls.  Text on the cover: it is the graduate thesis of Dr. Coelom.  This is the scene from the other side of our run-in with the Profusions, in the forest with the owl bears.  Not a strong read, this is as much as he is able to glean.

We go to meet up with Persevere.  He congratulates us and compliments Dane, and expresses gratitude for our help.  He asks if we know anything about the origins of the beast, and Chibo describes the potential connection with Dr. Coelom.  He notes this, and dismisses us to return back to SPAN.  He asks Ordinance to stay behind.

Persevere asks Dane, you know your reputation within the family is unenviable?  Dane replies that his action was intentional.  Persevere tells Dane that he comported himself admirably today, with courage and valor, and this was not always the expectation.  He has done the Shadowbanes proud, proven as a valiant servant of the Silver Flame.  Dane responds that the Silver Flame, despite his distance from family and Thrane, has always remained with him.  Persevere says Gravitas was uncertain about Ordinance’s ability to achieve the tasks set before him, and he will be happy to know that he was wrong.  Gravitas asked that if Dane comported himself well, he be given an heirloom.  Persevere slides it across the table - a box that Dane recognizes from growing up, but he doesn’t know what’s in it.  Dane picks it up, examines it, and does not open it right now.  Dane: Uncle, this means a great deal to me, and I’d like you to relay to the rest of the family that I’m doing as much as I can to represent the Silver Flame and the Shadowbane name in both SPAN and across the nations as I had done while serving Thrane.  Persevere: Good.  Never forget you are a Shadowbane and you will be called on by the Silver Flame again.  Dane nods.  Persevere: You have served well today - you should be proud and your family is proud.  Dane pulls out an envelope, sealed with the crest of the Shadowbane family, and gives the envelope to Persevere.  Dane: I’d like it if you could deliver this to Radiance for me.  I understand you must be going soon and I’d like her to have this before I leave.

Dane returns to the ship, and goes to his room to open the box.  Inside it is lined with red velvet; it smells of antiquity, the dust of ages.  Sitting in the velvet is a silver brazier about 1’ tall, 1.5’ wide, crafted of silver with elaborate swirl and flame patterns all over it.  He recalls hearing about his ancestor Chiara Shadowbane, with a strong connection to the Silver Flame.  For important battles, she was able to conjure an emissary of the Silver Flame to aid her in battle, and this was reputed to be a gift from the silver flame.  He knows little about it but attunes to it through prayer.

Dane prepares for his meeting with Maeladonna.  He ordered the roast swan and brought a bottle of fine wine.  He looks to the door as someone enters - a young woman, a little underdressed for the venue, and sets a five-headed black rose on the table and says “this is for you.”  And in the distance he hears a low rumble as the tank drives away.  Anticipating future encounters with Maeladonna, he preserves the rose as best as he can, and when possible, to distill rosewater from it.  

*****









 
