Back in Thronehold, we are called into Director Gauss’s office.  We are introduced to a tall thin woman with intricate scrollwork makeup concealing a long scar on her face.  She is introduced as a rep of House Cannith: Kitanaka Dusk.  She is here to retrieve a piece of Cannith tech that has gone missing and is thought to be in Thronehold.  Gauss has assigned us to help Kitanaka.

It is a proprietary Cannith prototype designed to improve efficiency of operations.  It is vaguely the size of an anvil.  She is otherwise quite cagey.  She seems not entirely sure, or is not an artificer able to explain what it does in any case.

Her investigations have turned up nothing useful yet to track it down, though she has information that it was taken into the sewers through a site in the Breland quarter.  Diviners were able to get a basic read but not perfect.  The magics of the anvil itself may be affecting the ability of scrying.

We step out into the Thronehold day.  It is the middle of summer, and a very special time every five years when the plane of Fernia, the plane of heat and fire, is coterminous with the plane of Eberron.  For one month it brings intense heat throughout the world - volcanoes erupt, deserts are blazing.  Thronehold is 105 degrees and humid, quiet because anyone who can take a month off has fled to the north or mountains.  

We head to the Brelish quarters and fill out the various paperwork required to gain entry.  Rook and Dane meanwhile try to pry some information from Kitanaka on the Fallen Star.  Rook starts with technical questions, and she is unable to enlighten us about its functionality.  She notes that the crew is operating outside the regular structure of the house.  She cannot tell us where they are.  She does note that Beausoleil did not leave the house on the best terms.  

We make our way to the sewer entrance.  We open the gate, there is a 2-3’ wide walkway on either side of the 2-3’ channel.  It is dark, humid, and redolent.  Kitanaka pulls out a broach with the Cannith symbol and pins it to her cloak, projecting a shield protecting her from drips.  She then pulls out an orb that she releases, which floats behind her and glows with light.

Rook takes point, having scanned some rough maps.  Chibo helps Rook investigate the floor for tracks; we find what looks like clawed tracks that have passed not too long ago.  It might be a little bigger than the werewolf we encountered before, something with toe beans and claws.  Xotl sidles up to Rook.  Chibo places Gose on the edge of the light, as part of a relay chain of communication.  

Those on point notice the smell of cooked meat, and find an alcove with three blackened corpses.  Rook looks around the room and then communicates back to Gose thence to the rest of the crew.  Xotl meanwhile investigates the corpses and notes they were equipped with shovels and rakes.  He takes a shovel and pokes it around, and finds a loose stone.  The rest of the team catches up.  

Just as we walk in, with Xotl facing us, an orange glow begins to glow behind him - a door opens slightly and disembodied hands creep out, made of orange flame.  Evertonette shatters them and one pops out of existence.  An injured one skitters across the ceiling and drops on Ev, clawing at her face.  Another leaps and attacks Xotl.  Two more scurry along the wall and leap off casting a Sheet of Flame that engulfs the rest of us.

Kitanaka gestures and steps into the room, and a sword appears in her hand - she flings it and it finishes off another hand.  Chibo misses twice with Eldritch Blasts.  Rook casts Frostbite at one but it saves.  Dane casts Bless and with it encourages Rook to shoot with a crossbow and he takes one out.  Kitanaka’s sword impales the last one, not quite finishing it off, and Chibo takes it out with an Eldritch Blast.  

After some healing, we look past the door and see that it goes down a set of stairs.  Rook and Xotl take the lead once again.  As we proceed down it gets hotter and drier.  Rounding a corner, Rook and Xotl note some dancing flame ahead - and proceed to sneak closer.  They see a room, 15’ x 30’ long, a wide spot in the corridor - but everything in it is on fire - ceiling, floor, walls, with no apparent fuel source.  There is an open door on the far side.  Rook is fairly confident that it is not how an elemental would present.  But this is the month in which the fire plane is intersecting with Eberron.  He tries to use Gust of Wind to blow it out.  A tremendous gust blows out the flames in the center, though the flames on the side are still churning.  Xotl then Chibo get blown through the corridor, followed by the rest.  

On the other side we see a hallway with a doorway, with light pouring out from the crack.  Gose sticks her head through the open crack, to peer around.  There is a beardless dwarf, bronze, with a chef’s toque, looking around.  Otherwise this room looks disused with cobwebs and burn spots in the dust.  

Dane approaches and Chibo tags along out of curiosity.  Dane clears his throat, to avoid seeming like he’s sneaking up.  The dwarf turns toward Dane and fixes his eyes of molten bronze.  Dane greets him politely and asks for a word.  He seems to be lost on our plane, trying to return.  He is an Azer, a master craftsman who has been tasked as a baker, to his chagrin.  Chibo suggests there may be an opportunity to work with Cannith.  Kitanaka agrees and suggests he waits in the room on fire.  

Kitanaka comes clean - what we are looking for is the Fernian Anvil.  One of the traits of Fernia is that if you’re performing an act that requires fire, the outcomes are much improved.  This anvil creates a small manifest zone with a connection to that plane.  She fears that in conjunction with the coterminous plane of Fernia, and used improperly, it may open a large uncontrolled portal and destroy the city with a flood of molten metal.

We decide that upon this news, we need to bust our butt and cancel our stealth.  Kitanaka draws a nasty curved scimitar, and Rook displays his Kraken’s whip thing, and we proceed ahead.

We next enter a circular room with a well, with a sphere of molten glass embedded in the ceiling, 30’ up, dripping down into the well.  There are four doors in the room (incl the one we entered), one of which (to the right) has fires apparent down the hall.  Chibo looks down the well, and Ev notes sensory organs moving within the glass glob - and it starts to form a projectile.  Ev pulls Chibo away and the thing sends out a gobbet of liquid flame that makes up its body.  The sphere expands and engulfs us all for pretty significant damage.  

It lashes at Rook twice, missing twice, with the help of Xotl bending luck somehow.  Xotl then blasts it with a chaos bolt, but it arcs across to Kitanaka as well.  Dane Slows it.  Kitanaka strikes it with her sword three times, but it is surprisingly resilient - only the last strike does any significant damage.  Ev Eldritch Blasts it twice, as does Chibo.  The creature begins to form another fireball attack.

Dane hammers it with the silver flame and it begins to get a crusty black crack across its surface.  Kitanaka strikes, causing it to shatter into a thousand pieces.  

We see a flickering light down the hallway but take a short rest to gather our wits and our hit points.  We enter a sweltering room blazing with flame, 60’ by 60’ - filled with flammable dangerous stuff.  In the ceiling there is a massive anvil, suspended by chains and pulleys in an arcane form.  On the ground below, there is a black chalk symbol.  From behind one of the pillars, wisps of smoke trailing from him, one blackened dead eye.  He says “I knew you would follow - enjoy the front row seat!”

We leap into action.  Ev launches two eldritch blasts and moves into the room to circle around Toby.  Rook launches a crossbow - hitting him but he seems to dodge.  Toby then summons a displacer beast that attacks Rook - “Lorelei, take that one’s eyes!”  And we all feel some sort of mental domination.  

Dane casts Spirit Guardians - calling forth specters of his family - then moves about the room to try to triangulate Toby’s position using the spirits.  Chibo is confused and cannot attack - but Kitanaka stabs him in the back, and the pain shakes him out of it.  Ev remains confused.

Rook tries to sneak away from the displacer beast but fails at stealth.  Toby swings at Dane, doing critical damage, but he’s still up.  Lorelei slashes at Ev for massive bludgeoning and slashing damage.  As the anvil heats up dangerously, Xotl hits it with a Ray of Frost and a small spot of black appears as it cools rapidly.  

Chibo casts Hunger of Hadar on the anvil to cool it and to disperse any energy into the void.  He is unable to catch anyone on the ground without endangering the crates of fireworks.  Kitanaka takes on one of the Loreleis and ends up splitting it further; there are now 5 of them.  

Ev casts Mind Spike on Toby and he fails to save; she now knows exactly where he is at all times.  Toby fails multiple times stabbing at Dane.  The Loreleis all attack Kitanaka, allowing Ev an opportunity attack, and she splits another.  Each displacer beast seems weaker as they split.  Xotl misses Toby with a chaos bolt.  Toby exclaims, “I will cauterize SPAN from this world - and you along with it, Xotl!”

Dane’s spiritual guardians light up Toby again, and Dane smashes him with the silver flame and his hammer.  While holding his attention on the anvil, Chibo launches some eldritch blasts at Toby - hitting twice.  Kitanaka dispatches three of the weakened beasts.  Ev hits Toby once again, followed by Rook striking from invisibility as Xotl shifts the timeline to improve his chance to hit.  A bottle rocket goes off to hit Toby in the head just enough to distract him, striking Toby badly.  Toby rolls away and starts his final monologue, describing how he has seen the visions.  Suddenly, a small ping rings through the chamber, and the anvil plummets, white hot, onto Toby.

Kitanaka takes out the displacer beasts while shouting that we should control this anvil.  Ev realizes that it is like a blast disk.  Ev directs everyone with cooling spells to launch them at the anvil, while she tries to decode the symbols to understand how to turn it inert.  Re-etching the symbols, she seems to be able to get it to power down.  Kitanaka looks it over and seems to think it is sufficiently disarmed.  

Hoisting the anvil, we see a large scorch mark, but no sign of Toby’s remains… 

We have successfully saved Thronehold and reclaimed the Cannith prototype, earned the respect of Kitanaka Dusk, and given commendation for our fine work.

