Post Merylsward:

Dane asks Rinoa what Hiram whispered to her to make her attack Dane so.  Rinoa replies that he cast a spell to force him to attack Dane, and then once Dane was down to attack Chibo.

We then ask Dane about his actions in combat with the brazier.  It is an old family heirloom, Ahuitemoc, which seems to summon a Coatl, a winged serpent of silver.

Rook and Chibo continue to look for clues as to the star chart apparent in the Tome's cover.  Chibo asks Gose about the book cover, whether the pattern represents an event, i.e. a time and a place.  "You surmise correctly.  Follow your path and you will be there at the correct time and place."

Chibo asks about methods to harm a Rakshasa for future reference.  While standard weapons may not affect him, fire, acid, and holy water might - so Chibo begins to prepare some alchemists' fire and acid potions.  Xotl researches into coatls and Kalos Bombax, and enlists the help of Chibo and Evertonette.  Chibo decides to investigate whether his Tome and the coatls (or at least the brazier) have some sort of resonance.  

Dane starts to try out his Triad (good, cheap, fast) and Xotl suggests a rare Kalos Bombax title: Kalos Bombax and the Heartbroken Cloister.  Xotl is willing to put down significant money, so Dane pushes "good" and "fast."  Using some of Xotl's gold to help lube the wheels of commerce, he identifies a mint condition copy, and the owner is willing to sell it.  But Evertonette breaks the news that Kalos Bombax is fictional.  Despite this, Xotl still tries to requisition some funds, and despite Chibo's help, gets soundly reprimanded by Akbar Scott.

Dane uses the Triad ability to get some fine cheese for Evertonette - using the Fast and Cheap option.  He offers it to Evertonette.  She knows the brand but this appears to be somewhat suspect - perhaps fell off a wagon, issues with processing, etc.  Evertonette sits with Dane to enjoy the offer, and Ev suggests it may be nice to invite Xotl in as well as a peace offering.  

We dig into Eldrantuku - asking Madame Korbala, subtly.  She suggests there would be effects near his vessel, spikes of jealousy, rage, etc.  We try to come up with examples of this.  Toby, the angry head of Xandrar lashing out, quelling a mutiny on the ship in our first mission, etc.

Xotl continues to research Kalos Bombax, and confides to Chibo about a time when Xotl was in the... Nilbog told him to "When you find yourself at the crossroads, follow the lizards, never the cat."  They have a convo about it, Chibo tells Xotl to check in if any more Kalos sightings occur.

Rinoa looks into the zulaat, Shroud, she received - on the battlefield, her fiance's body was recovered but not the weapon.  It is a pretty specialty item, valuable, so unlikely that this would go through a lot of hands without being accounted for.  She recalls that Chibo had noted some fading notes of necromantic magic 

With Chibo's tome and Dane's brazier side by side, he notes conjuration magic from the brazier, but otherwise not an apparent connection between them.  Dane does not allow him to touch or cast spells near it.  He consults Gose anout connections to Anathema or to That Which is Hidden: "This is an object."

Finally, after some off time, we are summoned to Director Gauss's office:

"Intelligence indicates that Colonel Xinvis of the Emerald Claw is in Korth. His motivation is unclear, but it must be important for him to place himself so near the seat of Karrnathi power when he is a recognizable wanted man. Our agents spotted him entering an abattoir in the Low District, and are maintaining surveillance to attempt to track him. SPAN is electing not to alert the local authorities, as there is a risk of Emerald Claw moles tipping Xinvis off before they can get to him. Legates, go in quietly, find him, and apprehend him if you can or eliminate him if you must. Rinoa, I understand you have a history with Xinvis, so I’m relying on your insight to outmaneuver him and operate with minimal support. There’s no way of knowing what presence of Emerald Claw he has protecting him, but it’s certain that he has many resources at his disposal."

Rook suggests the Rising Tide is probably too conspicuous, so perhaps the lightning rail might be appropriate as a quick means of transport to Korth.  We replenish our healing potions and featherfall tokens, take the Tide to Rekkenmark, then take the lightning rail to Korth.  

It is an old city, massive, divided into five wards.  We break into three groups to travel through town but all check in (at different times) to the same hotel.  Rook and Chibo help out with disguises and fake papers for those who have the potential to be recognized in Korth.  By the time we get into town and get settled it is early evening.  

We set up a meeting through a dead drop, and do some investigating in the meanwhile.  Chibo hangs out with some locals in the Low District and mentions he's looking for work, skilled as a Talenta Plains butcher... the abattoir is probably hiring, well established, no particular rumors, but perhaps gives him an opening to investigate later.

The next day is a military holiday, so the town should be crowded and makes it easy to meet inconspicuously.  We all take to our rooms for the night.  Chibo wakes in the middle of the night, and feels an acute sting in my side from under my mattress. He leaps out of bed and throws back the covers, and feels a second sting in his foot.  He is suspicious and wakes Rinoa, who observes that the wound in his foot has black radiating veins.  

Chibo (Fran Cisco) and Rinoa (Sharla) exit to find a House Jorasco, and passing the doors of the others, Chibo reaches out with Awakened Mind to the others to alert them to the issue and their goal.  Rook and Ev sneak in to investigate Chibo's room but don't find any physical evidence of ill doings.

Rinoa and Chibo make it to the enclave, and are admitted quickly.  The healer that first looks at it soon calls in three more healers, and soon poultices are applied to no avail.  Finally an older halfling comes out with a major mark of healing.  She apologizes and notes that this is not poison or disease, but appears to be a blood curse.  If there's no way to remedy this, I may only have days to live.  I note a subtle necromantic effect that seems to have grown somewhat since I scanned the floor.  The healer notes that conventional treatment would be to find an arcanist or servant of the gods, but this may not be responsive to typical removal of curses.  I need some sympathetic element of that source to successfully remove it.  

We leave back to the hotel, where Chibo messages to Dane on the way past Dane's and Xotl's room.  Dane takes a look and tries cure wounds, but it has no effect.  Dane casts Enhance Ability on Chibo, granting Fox's Cunning to increase his intelligence.  Going back to his room, Chibo investigates further.  He notes the bloodstain on the mattress both top and bottom, which strikes me as weird.  Speaking with Animals, the quiet chattering of rodents in the floor (noting that there are no crawlspaces). Listening to the rats, they are shaken and talking amongst themselves about running from a flood of blood.  The rats tell of scurrying from a flood of blood.  

Cutting the dime-sized splotch of blood from the bottom of the mattress, Chibo Reads the Kill.  He gets garbled mixed up images, and then sees himself in a graveyard with an empty grave.  The next morning, Chibo gives Dane the bit of blood as part of a material component with a remove curse.  But this is not sufficient - this is incidental residual, and there is some potent evil force blocking the removal of this curse.

*****

Chibo eliminates Hiram and Anathema as suspects, and considers Blood of Vol as a potential source of information.  Rinoa has some contacts and may be able to connect us to a Blood of Vol house of worship or some such.  But first we decide to head to our meeting to see if any of the contacts know anything about this blood curse (and the rest of our mission obvs)

Jared Hasselbach is the contact.  Rinoa and Chibo sit on the clandestine bench back to back, when Jared sits down behind us.  Rinoa and Chibo describe the attack, and ask if he knows any information.  He does not seem to see an Emerald Claw connection with this problem.  He gets back to the mission and describes how someone fitting the description of Xinvis was seen entering the abattoir in the Lower Ward and not seen leaving.  He had been in the Temple District on the street; they suspect he had been shopping for red herring.  

Rinoa knows a BoV temple where her family had worshipped in the past.  We head to the Temple Ward, enter a modest temple; she introduces herself and her connections.  She persuades them that an elder official should meet with us; Julius Lechner, a fit older man with unfortunate male pattern baldness.  He knows Rinoa’s aunt and uncle from years ago and remembers them fondly.  Chibo reveals his foot and Julius looks on in concern.  He has not seen the specific symptoms but fears it resembles a mummy rot.  It appears to be more internal than pure necrosis.  If so, Chibo will become weakened, fragile, and ultimately be consumed by necrotic corruption.  Julius guesses that Chibo’s resilience is high and he might have three to four days.  Asking about a sympathetic element - he guesses that Dane’s typical magic would have cured it if it were a standard mummy.  But perhaps with the creature that inflicted it or one of a similar ilk, the essence could be purified to assist in the healing.  

Chibo asks Rinoa a bunch of questions related to these, and she recalls an encounter with Xinvis - he was a big proponent of undead soldiers, perpetually on the lookout for additional wights or undead akin to those created by the Vodakyr Rights(?).  He had mentioned a potent undead called a Bloodborn.  

 We head to the abattoir.  It is a dismal grey day with a haze coming off the Korth River.  Most of the cattle come in on barges and go from live cattle to individual cuts and handles a fairly high capacity.  It is near other unpleasant places like tanneries etc.  From Gose’s surveillance, there appears to be a perimeter guard outside but no one inside.  There is a processing floor and an administrative area.  We elude the guards and slip in a side door.

We enter and proceed to the admin area.  Rook investigates the maps of the building system, Evertonette reads through their accounting, etc.  There is nothing suspicious about their books - this operation has been in business for a long time.  Rook turns up some old maps, showing subterranean access to the river, and drains under the floor to drain blood to the river for dilution, and we are sure there is as much subterranean area as there is area in the building itself.  We grab the maps.

It takes a little while wandering through the production area and eventually, around dusk, we light a couple of torches and find a chamber leading downward.  The temperature drops 10-15 degrees, we find ourselves in a room with chains and sides of beef hanging from the ceiling, a vast chamber for aging the beef.  Rook, Ev, Chibo, Rinoa, and Xotl in order.  There’s a moment as we’re walking forward, Xotl hears something behind us, turns to look, and then a click and sliding of metal - and when Xotl turns around Rinoa is gone.

Chibo notices a wash of necrotic energy, and Evertonette knows the sound - a whole bunch of blast disks activating - and we start to hear chains rattle.  

Rinoa slides down a blood chute, and into a room with Colonel Xinvis, unarmed and unthreatening, sitting at a table with a candle on it.  He speaks, though his voice is wrong.  He tells Rinoa, “You gave up looking for me.  You were so close.”  Rinoa replies that it is obvious he was expecting us - “what do you have to say, Xinvis?”  His appearance shifts - he no longer looks like Xinvis, but more like a handsome athletic young man - Gwyar.  Rinoa is speechless.  While she stands there stunned, he approaches, still unthreatening, and says, “How often did you visit my grave?…”  and a long speech about how he tried to send love letters, of a sort, and then she left Korth for duty, etc…

Back to the rest of us: initiative!  Xotl casts Infestation on one of the sides of beef.  It is infested with maggots, and jerks around a bit but is otherwise unaffected.  Rook and Chibo note that there are so many undead beeves that we just need to get out of here.  Rook runs ahead and uses thunder wave to clear some space.  Chibo notes among all the sawdust and blood that there is a trap door that appears to recently have been open but is now firmly latched from the other side.

Back to Rinoa - The former Xinvis gives a monologue to Rinoa saying she could be so much more if she just gave in to him.

Evertonette follows Rook and Chibo, and casting shatter on the pendula.  They both get injured, but the more injured one seems to knit itself together somewhat.

Back to Rinoa - Gwyar reaches from behind her and draws a symbol on her forehead with a sticky wet residue.  She is totally paralyzed.  He says, “you know, that is what I love about you - you’re a fighter.  You don’t take anything lying down.  Unfortunately, you have this sad commitment to those who aren’t worthy of you - and that is why Chibo has to die!”

The rest of us start to hear a disturbing number of wet squelches and bone on stone - and zombie type sounds as the beef halves have joined into mismatched full beeves.  One strikes Rook, another strikes Ev, and a third strikes Xotl.  A fourth misses Chibo.  

Xotl runs out and lobs a fireball after him, scorching many of the beeves quite badly and taking maybe 10 of them out.  Rook uses Booming Blade and strikes at a nearby beef.  Chibo, cursed and under attack from beef, is protected as his patron drops a Hunger of Hadar on the one attacking him.  This creates a difficult zone near the blast zone set up by Xotl.  The direction toward the entrance is still not cleared.

Rinoa breaks her paralysis, and tells Gwyar he will be stopped.  He puts his hands together, and a red rough-hewn zulaat appears between them, seemingly made of congealed blood.  Rinoa strikes at him, and while she thinks the strike should have hit a rib, it seems as if instead he is an undifferentiated mass of blood.  She strikes several times, and he ripostes and she blocks him.  

Evertonette slashes one but it is still up.  Xotl prepares for a fireball as more approach, waiting to line up a shot to hit many at once.  Rook blasts some more beeves and then runs toward the trap door.  Chibo escapes toward Rook, blasts the beef trying to escape his Hunger of Hadar, using his Chaos Thingy to turn an opportunity attack back on the beef to hit.  Ev slices another and then moves toward the one emerging from Hunger of Hadar, Xotl’s fireball blasts a few more triggering a wild magic surge - his skin goes taught like the head of a bongo drum.

Rinoa misses twice, then hits - and Gwyar’s zulaat melts to the ground.  He puts his hands around the zulaat embedded in his chest, and tells Rinoa - “You are incredibly strong - do not let those lesser than you hold you back.  Even now, as always, I love you.”  The wet mark he’d placed on her forehead, she feels it pulse and then sink into her.  She touches her forehead and comes back with blood on her fingers.

Rook slams his hand on the trap door and the lock disengages.  We all leap down the blood chute and find Rinoa, with a glowing sigil on her forehead.

*****

We open on the lot of us, including Dane who has rejoined us.  The room is lit by a candle.  Rinoa is gripping Shroud and standing over a pool of blood, and a glowing sigil on her forehead.  Her eyes are glassy, and she says “Status report.”  Two more zombeef come down the chute and we dispatch them quickly.  Rinoa briefly explains about Xinvis turning her fiancé into this blood beast.  Suddenly, a tube of beef matter extrudes down the blood chute at us, and begins to attack.  Rook identifies that there should be an exit in one wall, and notes that it seems to have been walled over.  Ev and Rook break down the wall into a terra cotta tunnel.  We pile into the tunnel while Rinoa covers the rear.  She moves to the center of the room and pauses, and the meat tube strikes - but she dodges at the last second and the strike of the meat shakes the foundations and the room begins to collapse.  Rinoa leaps into the tunnel.  Suddenly the abomination breaks through the tunnel wall and grabs Rinoa.  A red glow emanates from the worm, and suddenly Shroud appears from within and Rinoa steps out of the now decapitated and thoroughly dead worm.

We follow the tunnels and reach a point where the tunnel is flooded.  With a combination of Water Walk and Water Breathing, we get out through the tunnel and emerge on the banks of the Karrn river.

Upon ensuring everyone is out safe and collected, Rinoa turns to us.  “I’m afraid this is where we must part company.  I am not certain what has become of me but I can’t put SPAN or the team in jeopardy.”  She speaks to Chibo with words of compassion and warns him not to follow or to puzzle it out.  Chibo replies that he understands, and that she can call on him any time, but can’t promise not to try to puzzle it out.

We get back to the inn and Dane heals Chibo’s blood curse.  Chibo then performs a Read the Kill - before he was looking down into an open grave.  He had assumed that was his own, but now he realizes that it was the grave of Gwyar Gaebler, and an agent of Xinvis had disinterred it and Xinvis performed the ritual to turn the body into a Bloodborn.  Chibo also sees the entire exchange between the two and has a better sense that whatever happened to her was not control, but rather something in her being unlocked.  She would still be fundamentally herself, just perhaps with a higher level perspective on her mission.

Rook and Chibo proceed to the Deacon that Chibo and Rinoa had visited before.  Rook gives the Deacon a message for Rinoa should she return - with a signet of House Lyrandar that she can use to help her along her way.

Chibo and Ev craft a report and resignation-in-absentia to explain Rinoa’s departure.  Director Gauss and Quartermistress Koldaya, Rinoa’s friend, express some concern and on our way out we catch a glimpse of the Director consoling Koldaya.  


  





