We have been summoned back to Thronehold and have about five days.

Opening up on the Rising Tide.  A courier from House Lyrandar comes by, with a letter for Rook (addressed to Tertius), from his sister with whom he’s been corresponding.  It includes a brown paper-wrapped parcel.  The letter: first a congratulations on defeating the Lurking Horror, and wants him to be as well-equipped as possible, and is giving him a gift - a whip with three braids, each with a nasty hook on the end.  A magical weapon she picked up - a magic whip, and it can be commanded to separate and lash out at three separate targets you mark.  She has also done some research on the nature of the conch we found - a master of the Raincallers Guild, Madlin d’Lyrandar, had been working at an enclave at the time it would have been built, and Coelom was likely there at the same time.  Rook notes this in his journal.

Rook and Chibo head to the local Lyrandar headquarters, and compare the Tome star field pattern to star maps.  Chibo has drawn out the pattern and left the book on the Rising Tide under lock and key.  They deduce that it represents a tiny patch of sky, likely to be remote and/or far from typical navigation, and represents a view from both a place and a time.

Chibo and Xotl head to the Crossed Quills, and Madame Korbala greets us.  She has the newest novel: Kalos Bombyx and the Exile of the Travertine Spring.  She sets him up with a cup of tea and sets him up in an easy chair while he reads it and then she attends to Chibo.  She provides him with scrolls for several rituals (Magic Mouth, Alarm, Leomund’s Tiny Hut, Feign Death, and Water Breathing). Many tales of times past where events occur such as most of the population 13 figures and the 13th is lost.  Most notably, the rumor that there were in fact 13 dragon marks, and the first among them is gone.  Tales from Old Sarlona from pre-history when there were 13 princes and something happened and then there were 12.  13 clans of Mror Dwarves, one lost, etc.  

Xotl asks Chibo to teach him Detect Thoughts - Chibo teaches his method, and watches Xotl try to replicate it.  Of course Xotl takes a completely different approach - Chibo’s method is creating form from unformed space, like a pottery wheel, while Xotl’s is more like a Jackson Pollock painting.  He then asks Chibo about ideas for pranking his goblin adversaries - purely hypothetical of course.  Cut to the bar - playing cards, Chibo is able to use Soul Witness on them - one is deathly afraid of snakes, another is terrified of heights.  Meanwhile Chibo is telling about their adventures including soaring high above the oceans and the giant snake they fought.  Xotl asks about Toby, and one of the goblins says he hasn’t been around for months, and they’re done with him - and if Xotl acts like a victim he’ll be treated like one.  Xotl then, getting up to go get some beer, casually casts Phantasmal Force on the snake-fearing guy, a giant snake with Xotl’s face.  The guy freaks right out, and Xotl tells him “don’t fuck with me!”  

Over the course of a few days, Xotl terrorizes these guys - including paralyzing one guy and suspending him tied up hung from a light post high above the street.  He tracks down Uda the bugbear at a pit fight, casts Phantasmal Force on him to make him cower in fear in a back room of the fighting establishment, and interrogates him.  He is wild-eyed and afraid, but pulls a scimitar.  Xotl tells him not to fuck with him, and Suggests that he go enter the fighting pit, with two several-hundred-pound boars fighting each other.  Chaos erupts!  As the boars attack Uda, Xotl drops the suggestion then blasts the two boars with chaos bolts of acid.

Visiting Uda the next day, Uda freezes and tells Xotl everyone knows Xotl is not to be fucked with.  He doesn’t know much about Toby - by all reports, no one’s seen him, a church fell on him.  

Xotl then checks in with Maxis his Lesh handler.

*****

We turn to a hooded figure walking into a bar, who approaches a booth with a gnome sitting in it and takes a seat.  The figure is Dane.  The gnome gives him some info on the Profusions (see contacts notes).  After describing Maeladonna: Regarding your black rose, it’s something of a calling card. Five blossoms for the five Demeses of Phiarlan, same as the Hydra iconography, black for the Mark of Shadow. I think you tried to play a player, kid, and ended up doing exactly what she wanted. Whatever that may be.

Rinoa receives a package containing a weapon from her past, having belonged to her fiancé during the war and lost on the field of battle when he fell - his body was recovered but the weapon was not.  It is a double-bladed scimitar named Shroud - enchanted and finely crafted.  Rinoa brings it to Chibo to learn more about it - his eyes of the rune keeper can spot some faint bloody fingerprints, probably from a human male, are not part of the enchantment of the weapon, but exude a faint hint of necromantic magic.  It is a deep mystery how it came to her - she is able to find from asking House Orien agents about the courier - it appears to have come from Korth in Karrnath.  

Evertonette checks in on her brother and spends the rest of the time barding it up at the Silver Spigot.  She starts to notice the goblin guards changing their attitude toward Xotl when he shows up for performances.  Xotl doesn’t admit to his actions over the past few days… we all have a fantastic time.

*****

In the remaining time on leave in Thronehold, people work on their various projects.  Chibo starts placing Magic Mouths around the deck of the ship, with instructions to challenge any unfamiliar people approaching the deck if there are fewer than two Legates on deck.  At night, Chibo and Rook work on observing the stars; Chibo sketches the thirteen symbols on some cards, and asks Rook to name his favorite moons in order to assign a moon to each symbol.  Drawing three cards at a time, he seeks those moons in the sky to scan the field in the triangle inscribed within.  

Also, the rest of the crew is promoted to Rank 2 of their roles.

*****

The next day, after Rosa had been out for an hour or so, she comes running back with news of a shipment of fresh chanterelles at the docks, and recruits Xotl to help procure them.  

Shortly after this, while Rook and Chibo are on deck of the Rising Tide, a pigeon lands and says in a deep voice, “Take to the air - your friend is in trouble!”  We immediately raise the ship into the sky.

Back to Xotl:  On their way, two men step out - a half orc man and a human female, and then two more behind them - a Khoravar woman and a shifter woman.  Xotl turns to Rosa, and she says “it seems as if we had unfinished business.”  She then shifts from Rosa to a shifter natural state.  Xotl recognizes Bleak from the Fou Hippocampus.

Xotl quickly casts Phantasmal Force on the two behind, revealing an illusory pool of lava opening up between them and Xotl.  He then rushes past the two in front.  The two hit him and then Bleak leaps onto a barrel, bounces off a wall, and comes down on him with a massive superhero punch.  He is hurting bad.  He disengages and runs down the alley, launching a fireball in his wake.  Most save but take a decent amount of damage.

Back on the Rising Tide, we hear the explosion.

In the battle, the interns suddenly come around the corner, having followed Xotl to help.  Xotl quickly uses a redirect attack skill to swap places with one of the interns, who takes the brunt of Bleak’s attack.  Xotl tells the other intern to follow him and runs off.  While fleeing, he casts a heightened Suggestion spell on Bleak: “You got what you wanted, call off the attack!”  She shakes it off and she continues stalking toward Xotl.  He flees and dodges between horses and carriages to get across the street and hide.  The intern fails to hide and gets brought down by the half-orc.  Just as Bleak finds him and is about to strike, a striking figure in a starred cloak leaps onto a nearby table and encases Bleak in a yellow force bubble, then with a flourish of his cape, vanishes.

Xotl, newly emboldened, leaps onto a table and casts Phantasmal Force at two of the opponents, the shifter and the orc, making them feel like they’re stuck inside a gelatinous cube.  The human closes and swings but a hasty Shield spell protects Xotl.

Now the Rising Tide appears over the scene.  Evertonette leaps over with a Feather Fall token, and blasts a couple of folks with Eldritch Blasts.  Chibo leaps over the deck without a Feather Fall token, right at Xotl, and just before colliding casts Thunder Step to bring the two of them back to the deck of the ship.  Xotl tries to leap back off to save the intern, but Dane grabs him and heals him while they float gently down.  Rook then leaps off the ship and attacks with his whip at one of the creatures in the Phantasmal Force.  

The half-orc swings at Rook and hits.  The shifter attacks Xotl, and hits for some more serious damage.  Xotl disengages to go rescue Loz and feed him a health potion.  Meanwhile, Rosa/Bleak starts to roll this sphere around a corner.  Ev performs a mind spike on her, but it bounces off the exterior of the sphere.  Ev runs to follow her.

Safely on board the ship, Chibo hexes the orc and hits with an eldritch blast.  Back on the ground, Rook snaps his whip at the orc and rips it in half.  Chibo is a bit alarmed at that and will investigate later how this whip got embedded in Rook’s body.  Dane casts Bless on Ev, Rook, and Xotl, including an Orders Demand to compel Rook to whip the shifter, but Rook misses.  Xotl, having revived Loz, runs toward Ev while launching a ray of frost toward the shifter for good effect.  

Ev continues to follow Bleak, stabbing at the bubble but it is completely unyielding.  Seeing that attacks are ineffective, she runs ahead to block the motion of the ball.  

Chibo obliterates the shifter with arcane fire.  The rest of the crew surrounds Bubble Rosa.  Everyone’s convinced Rosa’s telling the truth, but Dane casts Zone of Truth.  The bubble blocks it, but Xotl chooses to fail his save.  He tells the story, including the Kalos Bombyx part.  

The bubble pops - Dane casts Hold Person but she saves.  He steps in front of her to block her motion, stopping her and calming her down.  Ev tries to block her, as a grapple, and she is unusually strong and deflects it.  Xotl launches a ray of frost at her, hitting her, and slowing her.  Rook thinks better of the whip, and instead grapples her, which works this time.

Chibo moves the hex to Rosa/Bleak, and tries to investigate.  He notices the chain she wears is different from her usual.  She breaks Rook’s grapple and leaps monk-style to the top of the building.  Dane snaps a Thorn Whip at her and drags her back to the ground - and follows that with a Spiritual Weapon.  Ev attempts to knock her out, but fails.  Xotl frosts her seriously.  Rook says, “Tell us where the real Rosa is and this will go much better for you.”  Chibo launches a couple of warning shots… i.e. misses… She claims to surrender, and Rook says, “show us your real face.”  Her appearance changes from Rosa to a grey-skinned, white-eyed appearance, and we recognize her as Bleak.

Dane’s Zone of Truth is still active, and Bleak fails her save.  He asks her, “Where’s the real Rosa?  And why did you attack Xotl?”  She responds that she suspects Rosa is still shopping.  She attacked Xotl because she is being paid, but doesn’t know exactly who, and she won’t reveal the middle man under pain of death.  Xotl casts Detect Thoughts and asks how she got to know Rosa.  He asks, who hired you, and she doesn’t know.

Chibo starts a Read the Kill, while the rest continue to question her. She received an offer for 30,000 gold to bring Xotl in to Merylsward in NE Eldeen Reaches.  She says her odds of evading SPAN are greater than her ability to evade whatever trademark brutality we might be inclined to try.  Xotl tries to do a deep dive but she succeeds and casts him out of her mind.

The Read the Kill - Chibo gets an image of a seaside town and an image of a faceless figure meeting with a grey doublet with yellow pansy in the buttonhole (this is supposed to be Bleak as her signal that she’s got Xotl); and then feels a terrible pain as three jagged claw marks appear across his face (in real life, not in the vision).

We get Bleak back on deck.  And there we pause, except for some flashbacks.

*****

We open on the close of an earlier scene.  Rinoa and Rook have trained with his new weapon.  Rook retires to quarters with the whip, and is investigating it.  He knows it has some enchantment, and that he needs to attune to it in some way.  He would try a few things, meditating, etc, which fail.  He sets it aside to use it as a paperweight while he works on other projects.  Later, leaning on his desk poring over some notes, the whip begins to embed itself into his hand.  He runs around screaming, when Chibo walks in to observe.  Eldritch sight reveals it’s a magic item; transmutation magic.  The physical part is spreading magical barbs physically integrating and magically integrating.  It would probably not be removable by physical means.  It is carving out a series of pocket dimensions in his arm.

Chibo busts out his tome and casts Identify as a ritual.  It’s not going to take the arm off, it is not harmful per se - no lasting damage.  Some things he learns about it: this is bonding to Rook as part of the attunement.  He can’t voluntarily end attunement.  In terms of magic identity, it is functionally a curse, and can be removed by magic.  Magically enchanted, and tentacles can be commanded to lash out on their own and if all three hit it has a paralytic effect.  Chibo has heard about such items - out of Mror Holds - and out of the deepest levels that had long been sealed, which had been sealed off due to an incursion by Khyber.  Chibo suggests that while it may be painful, it is super cool, but that it may be removable if Rook so desires.  It may be related to Daelkyr attempting to breach the Mror holds, with magic items with symbiotic qualities.

