The team presents the coffee and Mr. Stubbs to Rook and Rinoa upon their return.

New mission: there is a train, with intelligence operatives on it, it has been derailed by placement of conducting stones to divert the train into a tunnel bored into the Ashen Spires in Karrnath.  Apparently someone bored into the engine to steal the bound elemental, and along with a party of necromancers and undead, bored into the earth (tunnels? Or Khyber?) to escape.  It is believed that this is the work of the Emerald Claw.

We are tasked with trying to find a concealed base of operations for the Emerald Claw subgroup.  

Rinoa reminds us that she was involved with the Emerald Claw, before they lost their state sanction and have gone rogue.  The MO of the Emerald Claw is that they were one of the R&D wings of the Karrnath military - pushing the bounds of necromantic technology, e.g. finding lost magical resources/techniques, secret facilities, undead creation, etc. Still operates in cells, ranging from 3-4 sleeper agents to small armies, 50+ connected insurgents.  Primary objective is to retake Karrnath for legitimacy.  

Dane knows someone who knows someone - an old contact formerly in the Emerald Claw during the war.  He sends a message to see if he can make contact or find the whereabouts of this person.  The contact returns a message, saying he doesn’t want to draw attention to himself from the Emerald Claw, but he had once heard of a facility - 17 miles W of Teryk and then due south.  

In the tunnel, abandoned, but we find a large mechanical machine with a drill and claws that would crack open the shell of the lightning rail.  A few bones around, formerly part of some undead creatures.  A few gobbets of zombie flesh as well.  We find a passage that the elemental presumably went down, including footprint tracks (though fewer than those in the main passage).  

Through investigation, we determine that the main tunnel was NOT cut by the machine - it was a pre-existing natural cavern, connected to the main rail by a cut cave - hewn by hand and dumped into a deep pit in the natural cavern, and then smoothed by magic.  We suspect a gang of undead were assigned picks and buckets for over a year to plan this.  Why such effort to steal a bound air elemental?  Was this specific elemental targeted, or is there something more to it?  The mechanism seems designed specifically to crack the engine and steal the bound elemental, not some other purpose.

We can follow the tunnel farther down about half a mile, with switchbacks etc, and note that it is a sleep downward slope.  We investigate a little further but then head back out to the ship mid-afternoon.  We travel to the Shadowmount Forest, of gnarly oaks.  We set down in the forest just before midnight.  

Rinoa and Chibo delve their history with the Emerald Claw - they know they’d be on the lookout for natural-looking caves and such, with a few guards hidden.  They may also be looking for undead on patrol.  As we’re traveling, we find what at first seems a random bundle of sticks inverted to hold something like a small birds nest.  It seems to be a coded trail marker via Karrnathi military woodcraft, giving us a direction.  We eventually follow a series of these to find a crack in some boulders that appears to be screened by some shrubbery.  Chibo adjusts the sticks to throw off followers.  The shrubbery conceals a set of downward stairs into a passage.

Rook descends the stairs with Rinoa (with lantern) - Rook has her back off so he descends into darkness, and spots a heavy iron door.  There are two 2-3 inch rectangles carved into the stone and an empty triangle like the eye sockets and nose of a skull.  They seem to have skulls behind the holes, as sentries.  Dane knows that if they have no embers in the eye sockets, they are “dumb” skeletons, only capable of simple actions and follow simple orders, not greater intelligence.  

Rook and Chibo take out the skulls with eldritch blasts (two crits!) and crossbow bolts.  Through each eye hole we see rooms on the other side, with a string that goes up to a hook and then through a hole (e.g. to an alarm bell).  We are momentarily stymied by the presence of a door.  Through a combo of Help, Guidance, and brute strength, we jar it open a little, just enough for Rook to lift the bar with thieves’ tools.  We reveal a guard with older Karrnathi garb and a morning star.

Dane casts Hold Person on the guard and ties him up and gags him.  We close the various doors (including those on the far side of the room) and Dane casts Zone of Truth so we can question him.  He is bound by the spell but is reluctant to answer… through some good cop-bad cop routines we get a few answers other than “leaving, what a good idea”.  Something to do with the efforts around the elemental have been successful.  Something about a larder full of bodies being occasionally raided for parts.  He also says the alarm has not gone farther than him. Chibo punches him out and Dane puts on the guy’s uniform.  

This room is about 10 x 10 with visibility down the hallway - essentially a guard post.  There are the bells (from the skeletons) and a horn (for the guard to blow).  We continue down the hallway 20’ or so - a wooden door.  We hear a multitude of snores from the other side. Rook uses thieves’ tools to nail the door shut to keep them in, and move onward.  Chibo finds snacks in a kitchenette. 

We encounter stairs downward - 10’ wide - and find ourselves in a room dominated by thirteen stone sarcophagi, including one particularly large one in the center.  There are doorways (without doors, just openings) straight across and one to the right.  The center sarcophagus has some decorative runes - and emanating from each of the sarcophagi I note an aura of necromancy.  There are rollers on the lids so we can easily slide them open - inside is a heavily built corpse suspended in clear yellow fluid, mustard tone, some sort of preservative.  He’s had an arm that is surgically removed. This may be the larder spoken of by the guard.  Rinoa and I push the lid of the center one - there is a heavily desiccated corpse, a dried-out fish almost - gaunt, fish-like features on a humanoid face. Four clawed arms clutching a trident that looks like three shark-toothed blades on a shaft of gleaming blueish metal.  There is an ornate filigree all over it.  As we pull the lid off, we hear the sound of shattering glass and saltwater floods into the sarcophagus.  The creature’s black eyes open.  

******

Chibo blasts the beast with an Eldritch Blast.  Ev blasts it with a critical Eldritch Blast.  Xotl then hits with a Booming Blade (staff).  Dane casts Bless and allows Chibo another attack, with a dagger this time.  The beast pulls itself out of the sarcophagus and attacks Evertonette with the sword twice and she goes down.  The beast turns to Chibo and misses spectacularly three times.  Dane takes a serious hit.  Chibo ducks through the beast’s legs and runs to Ev and pour a healing potion down her throat.  Ev pops up and attacks with two defensive flourish.  Xotl pops out from behind Dane to shoot a ray of frost - and deals some damage.  Dane misses with the war hammer and gets chopped down by the beast.  Chibo misses with an Eldritch Blast, but Evertonette slams it twice with another defensive flourish.  It finally drops to the ground.  Xotl revives Dane.  

Chibo reads the kill:  A bunch of smaller though still muscular warlike shark men, each with only two arms, carrying a sarcophagus out of Karrn Bay, up to a raised part to a hidden tomb.  This ritual taking place and then a flash of seasons as the tomb remains undisturbed.  A group of Emerald Claw acolytes break into the space to extract the thing without opening it.  A motion of activity around the sarcophagus as it sits undisturbed for several weeks.  

Chibo investigates the scene - the sharktooth trident is indeed magical - school of enchantment, and requires attunement to make use of it.  Identify allows me to identify it as a Trident of Fish Command.  An inscription says: when the seas rise, and the dry places drown, so too shall you rise and conquer.  Investigating, I find some shards of ceramic in the lid of the sarcophagus, but also some holes that would let water in from the outside (as if in case of a sea level rise).

The other sarcophagi are designed to be opened and closed easily - no traps - built not for permanent storage, but more like a drawer for a body… Chibo stabs some wooden stakes into the corpses, while Dane uses sacred flame to incinerate the bodies.  As we open the sarcophagi to put them to rest, they all have some surgical operation - missing arms, legs, even a head or portions of chests.

We explore the side passage - a pantry with rations and water, and a wooden door closed and locked.  Pretty sure nothing active beyond.  Xotl picks the lock and beyond is an austere bedchamber for one person - better than a barracks, a proper mattress, a small desk and lanterns with a trunk at the foot of the bed.  Chibo and Xotl investigate the chest - there’s a false bottom and we find basic gear and clothes on top - and some nice emerald robes, representing some degree of rank - and in the bottom we find a small stash of correspondence.  Xotl and Chibo try the two people on top of each other under the robes, but it’s a miserable failure, so they give the robes to Ev.  The correspondence: to Colonel Gogoraceus from General X.

There’s some degree of frustration from General X, directions to continue to take advantage of the necromancy that is suspending the Sahuagin and pleased that they’ve not awoken it before they can control it.  Something about other equipment set up, causing instability and unrest among their opponents in Korrth; the elemental is to be used for powering the project.  The crew fixes up the room as it was before their entry, except for some carefully placed rat poop on the pillow.

As we venture down the main passage we detect a strong odor of ozone - like lightning rail.  We start to see flashes of light at the end of the hallway through a doorway.  A snap/zap/crackle sound.  Xotl sneaks to the end, a 40’ across circular room, about 15’ high, equipment around the edges, with a central higher ceiling and a column that goes up to 35’ in the center - and in the center is a table with a figure under a sheet.  Ev and Dane notice that the 15’ ceiling is actually the floor of a mezzanine.  Bars drop down to block the entryway, and we spot a figure with a Van Dyke and lab coat, who notices us.

Dane tries to bluff that he and Ev have us as prisoners.  The man is not fooled.  He pulls a lever and the bound elemental are sent down the wires to the equipment, and the thing on the table begins to flash and light up and thrash about.  Initiative time!

Dane blesses us once again.  He allows Chibo a free attack - he sinks a crossbow bolt into Dr. Horrible’s shoulder.  The Doctor says “My beautiful creation - destroy them all!”

The thing on the table bends in half, and two mismatched bare feet touch the floor and a 7.5’ tall creature rises from the table and approaches Xotl, and gets all up in Xotl’s grill and does some damage.  Cables attach from the creature via ports to the equipment and to the crystal.

Chibo fails on a Dissonant Whispers.  Ev casts Shatter on the bars but fail to destroy them.  Xotl disengages to take cover, and shoots a chaos bolt.  Xotl hits with a Chaos Bolt of thunder.  Dane uses his Morningstar to swing at the cables and severs one (2 in back, shoulders, legs, and one in the neck).  The monster stumbles toward Xotl and swings; he’s notably less coordinated.  The other cables start to flare and he begins to recuperate.  Chibo investigates and narrows it down to two cables; he pulls the wrong one.  Ev blasts the doors away, and pulls the other cable out - the creature begins to get herky-jerky.  Xotl scrambles toward the door and looks for cover.  He then blasts another chaos bolt - and slams with fire for another big chunk of damage.

Dane attaches one loose to another one to attempt to short it out; the stitches begin to tighten and heal, so he then strikes that with his Morningstar but fails to sever it.  The beast lashes out and strikes him.  

Chibo uses the eldritch sight and investigation to identify a spot where he can disable a piece of machinery - to identify a feedback point.  Dodging behind the equipment, he positions himself to pull more cables.  Evertonette launches an Eldritch Blast but misses wildly.

Xotl launches another chaos bolt and again does some serious damage.  Dane disengages and morning stars another cable but misses.  He tips the gurney on its side and wraps as many cables around it as he can, distracting the monster to keep attacking him.  The monster karate chops through many of the cables, giving himself multiple points of damage.  Chibo overloads the cable still attached to his back and does some more damage.  Ev does another eldritch blast for a small bit of damage and then dives back behind cover.  Xotl launches one more chaos bolt of acid damage, and Dane hits him with a war hammer but with no effect - and recalls that certain creatures are so fouled with arcane magics that unmagical damage does no harm.  

The creature lashes out, and strikes Dane like a goddamned rag doll.  Chibo manages to short it out with one last blast of energy from the equipment.  Ev and Xotl heal Dane back to life, next to a messy pile of body parts.  And we all level up!











 