Thronehold: seedy quarter.  A hooded figure puts candles and a pattern of salt on the ground.  He begins chanting; we see a book, sitting on a small desk, from which the hooded figure is chanting.

In the center of the pattern, we see a figure emerging, a foot and a half across, with obsidian feathers and teeth along its tongue.  Chibo inserts his mind into her brain and goes to explore her surroundings - not so much a drone but more like giving commands that it follows; as soon as it goes beyond 100 feet, my perception snaps back.  With an action I can dismiss her, but recall her with another action to any empty space within 100 feet.  When I am not controlling her, she stares at me intently.  “What do you ask of me, deviant?”

Back to the resolution of the Shadow Mount Forest.  The creature is dead.  We climb to the balcony  and find an area that’s a safe observation platform.  There is an exit, but the trail (of blood) goes cold fast - we can follow them to a natural cavern.  Chibo takes a sample of the blood for a Read the Kill.  From the blood he gets a moderate reading - Major Gogoraceus was using different types of energy to force life into dead tissue.  He had a long-running issue of finding sufficient power, and therefore the capture of the lightning rail.  He had some success, and has since fled - regrouping deeper within the natural caverns.  Now we have the option of calling in SPAN or Karrnath to secure the facility - Ev writes up a flying message to SPAN and they respond to hold position for half a day and await a team to take the captives and secure the facility.

*****

Back to Thronehold.  Rook receives a request to meet with Branch Water - head of research.  She has been working on something for the Rising Tide and wants to assess it.  The rest of us leave the ship and she and Rook board the ship.  She says the ship is performing beyond expectations and holding up very well.  She asks and he tells her about the fog cloaking field.  She says this gave her an idea, and she has added a console with which we can change the coloration of the palette of the ship, as a Glamerhull.  

Chibo is summoned to meet Dr. Greaves, who is wearing his typical tweed.  He promotes Chibo to 2nd rank Occultant, and begins to train him in the Soul Witness - how to pierce to the heart of a creature, based on a short conversation, that you can direct and weave into a more casual conversation.  When you do so you receive a deep truth about the creature - its greatest regret or deepest insecurity - a driving force.  Chibo asks about the Stabacus and any connection to Draconic Prophecy - it uses known reference points to calculate karmic balance.  You could theoretically engineer a stabacus that could function similarly to this one but super-charged.  

Dane is provided with his new armor by Branch Waters - plate mail - very well made and quite heavy.  But tapping an amulet at his throat, the armor shifts to a single gorget instead.  Nano suit!

*****

Next mission: with Director Gauss, she congratulates us on a successful last mission.  We couldn’t get the commander but we could get his soldiers, and we recovered the bound elemental.  She is pleased with LT031.  Time to send us further afield than we have been to date: Qbarra.  Not much of a SPAN presence there.  We will embark on a protracted set of missions in Qbarra, so deal with Thronehold stuff here and now.  En route, there is word that somewhere in the eastern Karrnwood there’s a credible report that House Vidalis excommunicate Dr. Coelom has resumed his experiments, and this is a good time to investigate.  Disrupt his operation.  Capture if possible, kill if necessary.  

After a couple of days of prep, we fly to Bastion in Karrnath - put the ship down in the forest, camo it, and hike through the forest and swamp toward where the report of Coelom’s cave hideout would be.  Along the way, a screeching, tearing sound comes from the forest.  Two owl bears!  Ev shatters them, and Chibo blasts one with an eldritch blast.  One crunches down on Rinoa and then the other bites on Dane.  Rinoa leaves two massive slashes with her longsword, Torment.  Rook does a powerful sneak attack on the less injured one.  Rinoa gets bitten again, and then takes it down.

The remaining one takes a few hits, and then lunges at Ev.  Rinoa destroys it.

A golf clap behind us: Dagmar d’Orien, a human man House Cannith, as well as the foppish dwarf with a mark of warding (of Kundarak), and another human in full plate/shield with the mark of House Deneith, accompanied by the halfling (of Jorasco) and gnome women (Kazan, of Civis) from the info raid on the villa.  The Deneith guy (Gilgamon) is a Sentinel Marshall.  

Chibo fails to sneak into the cave under invisibility, nearly nabbed by Dagmar - then instead sends in Gose behind the lines into the cave.  Gose notes eight deceased owl bears and then into a lab.  There are some shards, fluids, eggs, and a flash of something silver then my connection with Gose is severed - she’s been made.  But our mission has been accomplished - his operation has been disrupted.  We re-engage the Rising Tide.

*****

—X— yo ho yo ho a pirate’s life for me
We reboard the Rising Tide and head to Q’Barra.  We have a couple of weeks of escorting dignitaries and such.  We get a report of a pirate ship that is raiding trading vessels carrying Eberron shards.  Our request is to identify and deal with that ship.  It sounds as though those who surrender are spared while the pirates offload valuables, but those who resist are killed.  Targets include both standard ships and elemental galleons - which is interesting since elemental galleons are very hard to catch without help.

—A— advance research - legal
Ev, Rook, and Chibo hit the documents to look for patterns.  All ships left from different ports, but all stopped in Adderport and made declarations to the dock master there, and the bulk of their shipments were dragon shards.  The elemental galleons were hit at night.  

—B— blowin’ in the wind… - two ships.  moral, +effective
A plan begins to form: we hire a ship and use documancy to make it too good to pass up.  Local mercenaries on board the ship while the Rising Tide shadows from above.  Once the pirates attack, the Rising Tide swoops down to engage.  We capture or kill the bad guys; we capture the ship and try to keep the records, so we can track back to the pirate’s lair and make an assault/etc. 

Newthrone puts us in contact with a merchant ship - the Happy Harpy, captained by Dierrmo Guillemot, pot belly, very tan, opens vest and blue pants.  We get the dock master to sign off on the inspection, boosting the apparent amount of dragon shards to lure the pirates.  Chibo, Rinoa, Dane will remain on the Happy Harpy.  Rook and Ev will man the Rising Tide with the redshirts, Sulu and Chekov.  

—C— … Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate’s life for me - three ships - +moral, effective
Cut to the ship on the high seas, with the Rising Tide far above.  The Rising Tide spots two-masted ship quickly moving to intercepts; Chibo notes this as well from the deck, and messages this to Rinoa and Dane.  The ship raises a flag showing intent to pirate; after giving a short chase, Guillemot raises the white flag.  About 20 pirates line the side and begin to throw grappling hooks.  

It seems as if this is mostly humans and khoravar - minimally well organized, short bows and crossbows; the one with the best hat has on the back of his left hand a mark of storm.  Dane presents his holy symbol and casts Orders Demand - essentially charming the crew and offering to save their souls.  The captain saves, but 13 of the lackeys go prone - four of these slip into the water as their swing is interrupted.  

Chibo crosses, invisible, to the pirate ship. (—E— clandestine - pirate ship)

—D— smoke on the water - rising tide - effective, legal
Rook, from the Rising Tide which has dropped behind the pirate ship, directs the elemental to channel water toward the steering wheel to move it hard to one side and freeze it.  Initiative time!  Ev tries to blast the captain with the elemental emitter, but misses.  One the ship, there are 10 crew members and four grapples holding the ships together.  

—E— skulduggery and crossbones - pirate ship - effective
Chibo slips into the captain’s quarters, and sees maps, journals, and notes.  He scans the books and finds the most recent log book, and tucks it into his vest.

—F— slip sliding away (look just at the Tide? then harpy and pirate for G) - legal, moral
  F: Rook directs the elemental to switch to water cannon mode, to blast the crew off the deck of the pirate ship - readying it for Ev to fire it.  
  G: Meanwhile the pirates go.  Legal, effective.  Captain Pirate swings at Rinoa, connecting with one of his cutlasses.  Rinoa swings at the Captain, nailing him hard with a critical hit.  Dane engages with one of the other pirates but misses.  
  F:  Ev sweeps the deck with the water cannon, knocking one into the water and three more away from their station.  
  G:  Chibo cuts two of the grapples, stealthy-wise.  

—G— everybody dance now:  The pirates get up, and start to swarm the deck.  Dane gets hit twice with cutlasses, and Rinoa also gets hit twice.  A fifth pirate tries to grab her and shove her off balance.  The captain hits Rinoa again.  Rinoa takes out a minion, while Dane casts Spiritual Weapon at the Captain but misses, and Guiding Bolt, which hits for a blinding attack.  The mooks hit back, rather ineffectively despite their numbers.

—H— dream weaver - pirate and harpy - legal, moral, effective
Evertonette casts a sleep spell on the mooks around Rinoa and Dane, dropping six of them.  Chibo cuts the remaining two ropes, sending the pirate ship veering off away from the Harpy.  
  J: Ship of Fools - legal, effective - Rook lobs a crossbow bolt at the pirate captain, striking him in the shoulder. 
  H: The captain slashes Rinoa once again, and gives the order to regrapple.  Rinoa spends her last luck point to strike at the captain, but he parries.  But she uses Commander’s Strike to allow Rook to shoot again, who hits with another devastating arrow strike.
  H:  Dane takes out a mook, and then cures wounds on Rinoa.  This allows her to swing at the captain again, striking him for a solid hit.  The rest of the pirates try to regrapple the ship, allowing Dane to get in a smashing opportunity attack.  
  J:  Ev uses Mind Spike on the Captain, then leaps down (with feather fall) onto the deck of the ship.  From the rigging, 
  H:  Chibo blasts one of the mooks hauling on a grapple with eldritch blast, obliterating him.  J:  Rook washes the deck of the pirate ship with the water cannon, knocking three prone.  

—K— The Mariner’s Revenge Song - the Harpy - legal
The captain drops his cutlasses and offers surrender.  Rinoa calls on him to order his men to stand down.  We call up the merchant crew and tie up the survivors.  We allow the Happy Harpy on its way, and tow the pirate ship with the Rising Tide.  

—L— Bootylicious - finding the lair - Tide and pirate ship - legal, moral
Using the log, and interrogation, we find the pirates’ sea cave including most of the dragon shards.  We also learn the identity of the mole.  Captain Day, the pirate captain, is not a recognized member of House Lyrandar.  

—M— come sail away - turning the Captain over to the authorities; also a wheel - legal, moral
Using Soul Witness, Chibo finds the greatest regret is his decision to take up swashbuckling rather than being a low-level lackey of a house.  We also find that the steering wheel is magical Wheel of Wind and Water, that should go back to House Lyrandar.  Rook wants to keep the pirate from execution to prevent extinguishing the dragon mark.  This chafes at Chibo a bit - nobles getting away with literal murder while the crew probably hangs.

*****

When we get back to port, we decide to turn Captain Day over to the Newthrone authorities.  Meanwhile, a government official, Sheriff Maynard, has been killed in the street in Prospect, a town in the Hope region of Q’barra.  The Newthrone authorities want to send us to Hope region to investigate the mysterious death.  An individual seems to have challenged Sheriff Maynard and told him to defend himself in the main street of Prospect, and with hardly a movement on either part, Sheriff Maynard keeled over dead.  This is a story we’ve heard variations on throughout Hope, and they feel our expertise may be of help.
 
But that’s our next adventure!
