Evertonette’s magic - misconception that it’s all tied to song and performance.  Her experience is that the magic is more efficient and militarized (and less conspicuous) though still often personalized.  It comes from a personal well of magic - a well of emotion and rhythm in context of the environment.

Upon return to Thronehold, Xotl goes to the surgeons to remove the tumor (from wild magic surge last adventure).  As the surgeon cuts in, a beam of red light emerges from the fist-sized tumor.  Chibo sees (via eldritch sight) further into the spectrum of magic - it’s a writhing, oscillating wavelength of energies in three dimensions.  The internal magic seems to be obscured by Xotl’s skin.  The surgeon continues to cut and eventually pulls out a magic-imbued crystal of some sort.  It seems to now contain its own magic - no longer emitting light.  

Once Xotl is untied, he recognizes the gem and grabs it saying “it’s mine!”  Something between a many-colored opal and an oil slick.

*****

The mission briefing 
	•	You are summoned to Director Gauss’s office with great haste.
	•	Late during the Last War, a notorious information dealer named Gojibush Thorpwaller went into hiding. He had built a criminal empire based on his ability to uncover any secret, provided a client was willing to pay an exorbitant  price and had no compunctions as to Thorpwaller’s methods. Thorpwaller trained specialized agents in brutal interrogation techniques and extreme methods of blackmail and coercion, then assigned them to stop at nothing to extract information he had been hired to acquire. As you might expect, this made him many powerful enemies and he became a wanted criminal by most nations. He was last seen over four years ago.
	•	That is, until today. Someone in his orbit slipped up, and now we know where he is: a heavily-guarded villa along the Zilargo coast.
	•	Initial intelligence indicates that Thorpwaller has hired a force of Medani sentries, Tharashk mercenaries from Droaam, and magewright siege engineers to keep his compound secret and secure. 
	•	SPAN needs information he possesses. He knows more skeletons than the legion beneath Fort Bones. We can leverage what he knows about his former clients to intervene in any number of threats to the peace. 
	•	Unfortunately, we aren’t the only ones who know he has resurfaced. The identity leak means that there is almost certainly a House Deneith operation in motion to apprehend him. There is an outstanding contract for his arrest, issued two years ago as a rare unanimous directive from the Thronehold Tribunal; if he is brought in by a Sentinel Marshal’s recovery team, he will almost certainly be summarily sent off to Dreadhold prison. SPAN needs you to get to him first and exfiltrate him to a SPAN safehouse in Darguun. 
	•	We will keep him in our custody so long as he cooperates; it is in his best interest to forestall being turned over to the Tribunal, and warrant SPAN recommending an amelioration of his sentence in exchange for good behavior. 
	•	You won’t have time to run reconnaissance or infiltrate; this is a strike team operation. A heavy Medani presence means that it is unlikely to avoid raising an alarm, so this is a matter of forcing your way through guards to the target before he can escape, which would likely flush him out and into the waiting arms of a House Denieth Sentinel Marshal.
	•	Gojibush is a gnomish man with a scar from right cheek to the corner of his mouth, who wears his dark hair short with a close-cropped full beard.
	•	The villa is on the western shore of Thurim Bay on the Zilargo coast. It is a luxurious three-story structure built into the cliffside above the water. There is a small dock along the rocky shore, with stairs leading up to the bottommost level, which has a large deck and a swimming pool. Above this deck are two levels with balconies and large bay windows. Set into the rock are living spaces for Thorpwaller and his staff of servants and guards. Atop the cliff are three embankments of siege staffs that overlook a half mile inland of exposed rock as a defensive perimeter. The cliff’s edge is 60 feet above the highest balcony. 
	•	There seems to be three shifts of guards, so there is 24-hour coverage. The Tharashk mercenaries appear to be gnolls and ogres. The Medani sentries and magewright siege engineers are human and fewer in number.
	•	Your mission is to make an approach that bypasses exposure to the siege staffs and delays the Medani alarms to minimize the organized response of the defenses. Get in, apprehend Thorpwaller, and return him to the Rising Tide so you can deliver him to a safehouse in Darguun. Do not let Thorpwaller escape or fall into the custody of a House Deneith recovery team.

Notes: not allowed to attack Deneith even if they have him in custody - can take him from them via subterfuge but not aggression.  

Xotl and Chibo go to requisition 3 sets of goggles of night and 10 feather fall tokens.  We figure it will take nearly two days to get there and we may be able to arrive before sunrise.  We decide on an aggressive approach in which we drop in, take out the turrets quickly, feather fall in the ground team for the extraction while Rook and Vandare man the ship until we extract.

The ship engages the siege towers.  While that is happening, the rest of us dive down to the ground crew.
Chibo and Xotl jump over the side down to the deck.  There are three gnolls; Xotl aims for one but his ray of frost goes wide.  Rinoa and Evertonette join the fray.  Three knolls on the ground, two archers above.  Rinoa drops from the sky onto hers and smashes it nearly to death, and takes it out a moment later.  Chibo casts Eldritch Blast at another, does a small amount of damage.  Xotl fails to hit his several times.  Chibo tries to use Toll the Dead but the target saves.  Evertonette takes out an archer.  Chibo is hit and then the book reaches out to create a Hellish Rebuke - but his gnoll is still standing.  Then the door bursts open and a 12-foot tall ogre stomps in.

In the air, Rook, Dane, and Vandare maneuver around to take out one of the turrets.  Another hits but the ship takes the brunt of the damage.  They begin to hit away at another (out of three?).


*****

After a round of attacks, the second of three siege staves explodes in a fiery ball, from an unknown third party - coming from overland.  The third still has coverage of the potential landing zone.  Rook lowers the ship to get out of potential range from the third party, though is still in range of the turret.  Xotl and Ev are fighting a gnoll; Chibo is toward the balcony fighting a damaged gnoll.  Xotl disengages and runs toward Rinoa, waving hands above his head to get the attention of the ogre, saying “we are good friends to you!”  It seems to work - the ogre focuses its attention away from Rinoa and looks toward the nearest gnoll.  One gnoll hits Chibo again though Chibo is still up.  

After another round, the other party takes out one more turret.  The rest of us are still on the ground.  Xotl nails the gnoll attacking Chibo and takes him down with a psychic bolt.  Rinoa lets everyone know that the next room is clear (past the ogre).  Dane jumps down to the deck.  Chibo follows Rinoa into the main building, seeing a stairs upward, but waits behind Rinoa and chugs a health potion.  Ev takes cover behind the ogre away from the archer.  Vandare gets shot out of the ship’s cannon to the top of the cliff, and sees three figures - a six-foot and two 3-4 foot creatures running down a tunnel on the embankment.  He messages that to Chibo who communicates that to all around him.  Chibo casts guidance on Rinoa as she runs up the stairs, while Chibo follows after.  Ev blasts the archer gnoll but he remains up.  

Vandare approaches the downward steps from the top of the bluff - a human male, with a shock of white/silver hair, heavily muscled in heavy armor; a female halflng and a female gnome following close behind.  Vandare follows and tries to shout at them to get their attention; they ignore him, and the halfling makes a gesture in the air - a dragonmark flashes and an entire corridor fills with opaque mist that crawls down his throat.  Vandare gasps for air as he is incapacitatingly nauseated.  

A gnoll at the top of the stairs shoots and hits Rinoa.  Xotl shoots him with a chaos bolt, destroying him and the couch he’s hiding behind.  

Rook guides the ship upward to the top of the bluff to observe for enemies.  

Rinoa charges up the stairs and there’s a grunt and attack noise.  Dane dashes up the stairs, who finds Rinoa engaged in combat with another ogre.  He grabs his ruby, briefly prays to the Sacred Flame, and a spectral warhammer appears to strike the ogre grievously.  Chibo hits it with an eldritch blast as well.

Ev shatters the gnoll sniper and destroys it, and then moves toward the second floor.

Vandare stumbles through the fog and haze to find an opened trap door below; he feather falls straight down and sees the halfling woman turn a corner about 40’ away from him.  

Chibo avoids getting hit by two crossbows from some human guards nearby.  Xotl nails the ogre with another chaos bolt and flenses his shoulder.  Dane nails the ogre with his spiritual hammer.  Chibo misses the ogre with a crossbow and backs up to the top of the stairs; Ev arrives and blasts it with another eldritch blast.

Vandare dashes around the corner to find the human and gnome standing over a pair of humans dressed in servile garb - the human has a male gnome who matches the description of Gojibush by the throat.  He messages the halfling about finding a compromise - she tells him to piss off.  

Rook spyhops one more time and stays above the level of the cliff (though above the deck).  

Xotl hits the ogre with Booming Blade, and Dane manages to take down the ogre and then heals Rinoa with a healing word.  Chibo hits one of the crossbowmen (presumably a Medani guard) and ducks again out of sight.  Ev hits him again.  There is a fairly ornate set of double doors behind this guy, going into the hill.

Vandare follows after the three, with Thorpwaller.  He spots that the scar from the mouth on the gnome has started to peel up… is it a decoy?  He launches a warning shot toward the halfling, who casts another noxious cloud.  Vandare lets them pass; Rook sees them exit to the plateau.

Xotl frost-rays the injured bowman; Rinoa clobbers the other in front of Dane.  Dane swings his warhammer and connects, and then takes him down with the spiritual hammer.  Chibo takes out the last bowman and passes slightly past the double doors to note that some defensive noises come from past the double doors.  The doors appear locked.  Vandare rushes down to where Evertonette can see him; he goes to the double doors to try to unlock them, opening it with a deft dagger.  The room beyond is opulent and appears to have been vacated quickly, despite it being locked.  Vandare notes clues that point to a small trapdoor under the bed.  Dane smashes through the trap door, and we find a gnome cowering in a panic room.  The scar appears to be legit.  We grab him, escape out the top side, while Chibo surreptitiously grabs a finger from the corpse of one of the fallen guards to try some occultancy… 

*****

We still need to deliver Gojibush to the safe house.  We take a short rest and Chibo tries to get a sample of blood from Gojibush to run a Read the Quarry - I trace a trail to the finger to the owner of the finger, and a dark tentacle unfurl and put a Galifar on the Medani guard whose finger I took - many-armed octopus superimposed on Gojibush reaches out with gold coins to deposit them - I can’t trace the tentacles, but can trace up to a stream of coins raining down from a stone vault with a Kundarak logo on it.

Chibo works with Dane to understand his magic.  He uses a symbol as his focus - an arrowhead with a flame on it - the arrowhead begins to glow blue a little bit.  

As we fly there are some dark thunderclouds nearby but Vandare skirts us around them as best as he can.  Dane notices against the dark clouds some pitch-black blotches that break off and cruise down an arching angle towards us.  There are four smaller white things that drop off as it’s nearly above us, that came off one of the black objects.  Dane casts Bless, and as an added bonus allows Chibo to get a shot off on one of the white things.  He hits with his crossbow and a trail of red falls behind the object.  Ev comes from belowdecks and hits another with Eldritch Blast.  Rinoa barely misses one with a hand axe.  

Four streaks of white comes flying at unreasonable speed from above and shoot past us.  All four figures slam into the Rook at the helm and send him flying 20 feet.  Small humanoid figures covered head to toe with a spiderweb-like webbing and wearing goggles - they pull out daggers.  They could be goblins.  Chibo misses with a Toll the Dead; Xotl runs up the stairs and strikes with a chaos bolt.  Dane uses spiritual weapon, but first strikes with his Warhammer on the one Xotl just hit.  It collapses to the deck.  The spiritual weapon misses.  Evertonette does a Mobile Flourish Blade Attack - and takes out one more spider goblin.  

Now, the two survivors attack Rook with pairs of daggers - he is looking very grim.  Simultaneously, Rinoa takes an arrow to the shoulder but it deflects from the shoulder plate.  A second arrow finds its way to Dane.  Evertonette and Chibo also take hits.  The four black figures are giant vultures with hobgoblins with bows.  Four more white goblins hit the deck ready to attack.  Xotl gets clobbered and a circle of birds appears around his head (wild surge).  A final creature flies in and grabs the helm and turns it hard.  

***** more stuff - combat craziness

After, Xotl takes two goblins, Loz and Eztli, captive and makes them his servants.  They roam around the ship, peeling potatoes, under threat of death from Rook if they mess with anything.  

Back at Thronehold, Xotl convinces Director Gauss to keep the goblins on the Rising Tide.  

Greaves check-in: Expectation that Chibo is measuring conduct and comportment of crew as usual for Occultant reports; this extends to the goblins as well. 

Rinoa checks in with Gauss on how LT-031 is working out so far.  She is pleased overall with our missions and our initiative to explore questions beyond the immediate missions.  In terms of improvements, she mentions certain tensions among members of the team, but trusts that it’s growing pains as we learn to work together, and that the reported frictions have not interfered with our missions.  

While in town, Xotl notes a sign pointing down an alley that says “Kalos Bombax book signing, one day only” - hand drawn on cardboard - he is excited but suspicious, and follows the signs.  Some time later, he staggers back to the ship, black eyed, without his casting focus (the gem removed from his shoulder hump).  There is an arcane eye above his head (though not visible to others).   In discussions, suddenly the eye disappears and then gills show up.

With Eldritch Sight, Chibo notes there’s a kernel of chaotic energy inside Xotl.  Rook, Rinoa, Chibo, and Xotl go back to the site of the ambush - picking up Evertonette along the way from the Aundairian embassy.  We find the signs, and a pool of blood.  Chibo “reads the kill” on Xotl’s blood - an hourglass with Xotl’s head as the top, a skinny neck, and a stylized body below.  Each grain drops and an effect occurs; then the vision wears out as the last grain drops and sets the bottom part on fire.  Meanwhile, Xotl hears the sounds of rats discussing cheese and whatnot, inside the walls.  He shouts out to the rats, and they respond.  He persuades a couple to come out with a promise of cheese.

Xotl asks them what happened and they demand food.  Chibo casts Snack-o-mancy to provide some tasty treats.  They say a couple of tall not-bald guys, bigger than Rinoa.  Xotl is convinced it’s Toby’s bugbears!  While we discuss and investigate, Xotl’s arms extend by 6”.  Evertonette finds a large partial bloody footprint heading SE.  Ev and Rook use survival skills to track the footprint toward Darguun.  Xotl and then Chibo start to ask shopkeepers if they’ve seen any bugbears.  As we get closer to the Darguun quarter more shopkeepers nod in the affirmative (we are near the bugbear quarter after all!).  

Hobgoblin guards stop us, ask us for papers, and with a little persuasion and bribery they tell us we’re looking for fish, not steak - and direct us to the Hanging Hook.  We ask around and find close to the water a public house for goblins, with an oversized meathook/fishhook above the door.  Chibo walks in to get a lay of the land.  There are some bugbears, hobgoblins, goblins.  Behind the bar is a massive bugbear, as wide as he is tall, and with a ladle of soup he takes note of Chibo, who scurries back out.  Xotl slams open the door, and Rinoa spots a pair of bugbears in the crowd that she recognizes from the Silver Spigot. 

Xotl, Rinoa, and Ev approach the bugbears.  Xotl slams his fist as Chibo thaumaturgies some thunder as background.  Rook keeps an eye outside, and Chibo monitors the perimeter from a little farther away.  After Rinoa tries to intimidate one bugbear, Xotl “suggests” he help Xotl find his crystal.  

The other one tries to interrupt, and calls Xotl out for casting spells, challenging him to a duel.  Xotl holds his own in the duel and after putting the sleep on the bugbear, he bursts in a flash of light, blinding everyone, and while everyone is blinded, he takes a couple of potshots knocking him out.

Finally, we are escorted from the premises by the barkeep, and the first bugbear (Gaar?) tells us he’ll lead us to Toby.

Gaar (under suggestion) tells us to follow him - a couple of blocks away in the Valinar quarter that is assigned to Goblins.  Still damaged from the Last War, with goblin squatters inhabit many buildings.  There is a burned-out temple of the silver flame - a wooden fence around, painted “condemned, keep out” - here is where Prince Thalin ir’Weinhard defied the precedence rule which essentially initiated the Last War.  Looks like an old cathedral, ostentatious, 100’ tall at spire, 200’ each side, but dilapidated.  Fence generally blocks view, though a few small gaps here and there, with some traffic in places.  

Chibo gets all disguised up as an urchin and slips in through the gap, trying to get in and get a glimpse of what is happening inside.  It is in pretty substantial disrepair.  Blocks have fallen; one spire has collapsed inward.  Tricky footing situation.  Some broken windows we can crawl through, some cracks in walls we may be able to squeeze through, and a slightly open front door.

As I approach the crack in the wall, I can see inside the temple - a number of candles marbled red and black wax, with tendrils of black smoke upward.  

While Gaar tells us Toby ordered him back in two hours in SPAN uniform, we are 45 minutes early and with no uniform.  But Xotl’s wild surge kicks in again reminding us of the lack of time.  Chibo gets up to the window, others stealth (try) to get over to the side door.  

Toby is up at the altar, wearing black and tarnished bronze outfit - as an inversion of the SPAN uniform.  Ev recognizes the rhythm of his tone - as if speaking in reverse.  There is an ambient magic vibe, a trace of arcane energy he’s making as he moves around - hard to piece together exactly what’s going on.  

Gaar walks in and tries to reason with Toby, who feigns acceptance but then stabs Gaar in the back.

Ev tries to sleep him and he resists.  Chibo Mind Spikes him but he saves.  He slashes at Xotl but misses with a black flame blade - once and twice a miss, and third a hit, bad.  Xotl hits for a small amount of damage.  He then disappears behind the altar.  

Next to Chibo, a purple panther with six legs and tentacles appears and strikes out at him.  Hits with one attack from a tentacle, then leaps down to the floor.  Rook calls out for Rinoa and then jumps down to try to hide.  

Xotl runs back, hides, and quaffs a health potion.  Ev attacks the displacer beast with a Shatter.  The beast strikes back.  Toby pops up and hits Rinoa with a crossbow bolt, and two misses.  He scurries into a dark corner even further back and tries to hide.

Rook tries a sneak attack but misses.  Xotl sends a chaos bolt of psychic damage that hits Toby.  Ev hits the displacer beast with a blade flourish, and it slides away and snaps into a different position.

Chibo hits Toby with another Mind Spike which he saves again - then Rinoa hits the beast with a sword and rallies Xotl giving him 5 temp hit points.

Toby wreathes his sword in black flame again, and strikes at Rook, hitting him for a massive blow.  Rook lets loose a crossbow against him. but misses.  The beast hits Evertonette, who goes down, and misses Rinoa.  Xotl strikes Toby with another chaos bolt, and the wild surge hits Toby with a surge of anger and disgust that puts him at a disadvantage.

The beast hits Rinoa.  Rook pops up and nails Toby with a critical crossbow bolt sneak attack!

Ev hits the beast with a defensive flourish, and it lets out a scream and it is no longer camouflaged.  She swings with her club as a second attack and connects for additional damage.

Chibo nails the beast with an eldritch blast, crits, and it basically unravels from existence.

Toby makes a big threat monologue, saying we’re all going down, and strikes at the pillars holding up the structure.  They start to collapse, and we note that Toby for the first time is not clutching the crystal to his chest.  Xotl mage-hands the crystal to himself, and then Toby takes cover one more time.  The temple begins to crumble around us and we barely escape as it tumbles around us. 

