SPAN adventures part 4

Rook and Evertonette: Rook accused Ev of murdering Jean Luc in cold blood - no holds barred argument ensues.  That the duel happened after all he blames on Ev letting it get to that point where blood needed to be shed.  Will probably be palpable tension between the two for a while.

Chibo hands the broken shards from his unfortunate experiment to Xotl and apologizes for taking the dragonshard “without Xotl’s knowing” (emphasized).  Xotl understands, and craftily puts the shards into his own stash, clearly communicating that it is not going on the register.

Dane’s business with Ev, he has felt down about Thrane’s impacts on the Aundairian occupation.  He wants to get back to why the Silver Flame gave him powers in the first place - to heal and to keep order and to keep things right.  Volunteering for shifts in the medical ward, etc.  He’s felt inadequate in his combat skills and realizes his magic is most effective when used for healing.  To help in combat, he is training with security ops team, and is therefore in a position to keep an eye on Toby.  He realizes Toby is pretty tough and on point, dedicated, quick to learn, good fighter - pretty easy to see why he has a strong following among the security team.  

Vandare came into the job as an altruistic do-gooder, but is frustrated because his true nature is to run in and let the arrows fly in service to the greater good.  Frustrated by the team dynamic - would rather do things his own way.  Conclusion that he’s not actually all that altruistic, but also that he’s gonna be more aggressive about asserting plans for the missions to try to capture the spirit of his patron.

Mission briefing:

We report to Director Gauss for a briefing.  There’s a burgeoning trade war between Breland and Eldeen Reaches - escalating taxes etc.  Complications include number of stakeholders involved here.  Neither can back down without sacrificing credibility.  Other countries getting involved - Aundair and Droaam.  Fishers and merchants all suffering.  Guide governor and constable to a suitable conclusion:  Bruno Abrell, the governor of Xandrar; Constable Helena Celeste of Erlaskar in the Eldeen Reaches.

From Dustin:
	•	A burgeoning trade war between provinces in Breland and The Eldeen Reaches is threatening to erupt into violence. The conflict focuses on shipping along the Silver River, between Silver Lake and Lake Galifar. SPAN has been asked to intercede and mediate a negotiation. Our objective is to facilitate an agreement that satisfies the stakeholders and prevents the conflict from escalating.
	•	This began with the Brelish city of Xandrar exploiting a loophole in the Treaty of Thronehold to levy a tax on all ships carrying trade goods across the Silver River. Bruno Abrell, the governor of Xandrar, has been justifying this with rhetoric about the right to manage and protect national waterways, claiming that waiving that right is a sign of weakness. Constable Helena Celeste of Erlaskar in the Eldeen Reaches has followed suit, levying a second tax on ships passing through the southern end of the Silver River and rallying support around a similarly inflammatory rhetoric. Both sides have been competing to increase the tax as a demonstration of political conviction, to the point where it threatens to stop trade along the Silver River entirely.
	•	Complications include the number and motivation of stakeholders.
	•	Bruno Abrell and Helena Celeste seem to have locked horns on this matter and neither can back down without sacrificing political credibility. If escalation continues, it could deteriorate to an attempt to nationalize the waterway entirely. There is an angry faction of nationalists on both sides that support the tax, seemingly as a proxy for or prelude to military engagement.
	•	The fishing economy of both sides is near the breaking point and have been protesting, opposed by the nationalists. They hold little power, so are making up for it with intimations of violence if their concerns are not addressed.
	•	A consortium of Aundarian merchants based in Passage is objecting to being functionally cut off from Droam’s port in Silver Lake. They exchange agricultural and luxury goods for Droaam pigments, rare magical components, and mineral resources.
	•	Similarly, House Tharashk is representing Droaam’s interests, bringing a claim that Droaam’s port is being rendered inoperable. This claim is undermined by the fact that Droaam is not a recognized nation under the Treaty of Thronehold, but the alliance they have with House Tharashk as a trade partner lends them credibility, along with the support of the Aundarian merchants.
	•	A negotiation meeting has been scheduled to take place in Xandrar in X days. Representatives from the four main parties will be present, and competing protests have already begun to organize. Your job is to keep this conflict from getting out of hand, optimally by guiding the governor and the constable to agree on something acceptable, or by intervening if the situation warrants.

Rook has the ship painted with proper SPAN logo and colors.  Operational parameters: we are both mediators and peacekeepers.  

Docks ward, residential Middle Ward, and the Hill Ward - mercantile etc.  The meeting is to take place in the Hill ward at the Governor’s Administrative Center in Xandrar.  We land in Lake Galifar and sail in as an elemental galleon.  We see a rudimentary blockade, the harbor master is functioning as a tax assessor and collector - estimates value of goods and levies an “appropriate” tax.  There are very few ships that seem interested in passing through any more - current taxes are brutally cost prohibitive.  

It is early morning - there are more ships here in port than one would expect - it does not seem like a working dock - no one hawking fish or repairing nets or anything.  Small 3-5 man ships, nothing that realistically could hold any weapons.  Questions: why is this held here, rather than neutral ground?  Is the other delegation here already or on their way?  

Rook going to the Hill Ward, straight to the governor’s mansion to try to get some answers; Vandare and Rinoa go with him.  Chibo and Dane go to the Docks ward in uniform while Chibo is out of uniform - separate but keeping an eye on each other.  Meet back at ship in three hours.  

*****

The City Hall group report in and are met by an administrator.  They get the agenda for the meeting - Gov Bruno Abrell and Constable Helene Celeste are the voting bloc.  Also present: Rodrorth Skyvale, Aundarian merchant; Drimer d’Velderan, House Tharashk representative for Droaam.  Rod and Drimer are in town (taken rooms at a nearby inn - Stork’s Stilts in Hill Ward, and Crown of Daggers in the Middle Ward respectively), Constable will arrive tomorrow.  Constable will bring own honor guard.  

Rook asks for meeting with Governor in his role as a mediator - with Vandare chiming in about clout due to SPAN membership.  The administrator questions whether she has room on the docket, and whether it’s a good idea to meet with one side before the other.  Rook takes the lead on being the mediator and gets scheduled for a 4 pm meeting before the governor’s dinner.  

*****

Chibo and Dane head to the Docks - Chibo leaving inconspicuously while Dane leaves the regular way.  There is an ale house near the docks that is full to bursting.  Dissatisfaction permeates the atmosphere because they cannot get to market.  Dane goes in first, and gets some sour looks at first and then they move on.  Snippets of convo around complaining about the situation and being bled dry.  Dane scans the room and sees a center table with a guy who is receiving a lot of attention, going on about how things used to be better even during the war.  The taxes from both sides are an affront that transcends nationality.  Dane introduces himself to the guy politely.  The guy, Strur Hazecrag, gestures to clear a spot on the bench, and invites Dane to sit down.  He tells Dane about the lack of income and the problems associated with it.  Managing mostly by getting pissed.  He is clearly angry at the Hill and rulers.  Dane invites him to speak with the Constable and Governor.  

Chibo ducks into a game of dice.  The game is Nets and Fingers, similar to other games, e.g. Giants and Halflings.  He tries to pump the fishers for information, and gets the same general info as before - and that Bruno the Governor started the pissing match.  Xandrar might be able to survive without them but the fisherfolk can’t hold out forever.  Only in the past month that the taxes started.  Chibo goes back to playing the game, buys some beers for the fishermen rather than taking their winnings.

*****

Ev and Xotl head to check in with the merchants of Xandrar.  They get a meeting with Hal Larkspur, a merchant, who may be able to answer their questions.  Apparently uncivil chitchat about conflict across the river.  The merchants say they have few dogs in this fight.  Xandrar is a crossroads, so waterborne trade is a small part of the portfolio.  They use the Orien roads mostly.  Politically they don’t support one side or another, but the river trade tax doesn’t hit them very hard.  He describes the conflict as politically motivated, not economically motivated - there’s just not that much money to be gained and much to be lost.  

Ev asks why is it happening then?  The gov is interested in ensuring the stability of his support.  There’s a swath of the pop that he needs to ensure he is in their favor, and by involving an unnecessary conflict will distract them from his shortcomings he may have.  The gov serves at the pleasure of the Monarch and as long as he’s managing the province he is not likely to be replaced - or if there were to be objections of the people he is unlikely to be unseated.

Hal feels bad for the fishermen but does not pose that as the official position of the merchants guild. He wants to see stability - everyone has a right to trade, and see that people not represented are not being taken advantage of - or not being used as pawns in a political game.

*****

a) someone is trying to start a war?
b) the governor has someone pressing him to do this?
c) is this a cover for some other goal?

Rook looking for Civis station to get message to/from House Lyrandar.
Chibo and Rinoa to find and meet with Nationalists.
Ev and Vandare to meet with Aundairian merchants.
Xotl and Dane to meet with Droaam merchants.

Droaam: Xotl and Dane find the Crown of Daggers and the House Thrassk.  It’s a run-down economy tavern.  Dane tries to be subtle but Xotl hollers out, “We’re looking for house Thrassk!”  Drimer d’Velderan representing Thrassk and the trade alliance.  Their stance - cutting off access is effectively cutting off access for Droaam to the entire inland of Khorvaire, and that they have no pre-existing claim.  Dane makes a case for eliminating the tarriffs, and presses for more info.  

Thrassk has represented Droaam as an intermediary for providing droaam labor and mercenaries to the rest of Khorvaire.  Droaam wants to make sure Breland understands they have no claim on Droaam as a peaceful nation in the treaty.  The rep seems to trust Dane and Xotl to be if not allies, at least on the side of doing the right thing.  He drops his professional demeanor for a second to note that Droaam is getting very screwed in this whole thing and would want to make a case that it would not be good for Droaam and anyone who relies on their routes.

Nationalists:  We ask around a bit about supporters of the Gov’s policies, in protests etc.  We’re directed to the Goose and Gander.  Rinoa picks up a vibe of folks not so much pro-war, but skews younger and for whom war is normal and peace does not offer an outlet for dissatisfaction with international conflict - perhaps brought up on propaganda but suddenly told they have to get along.  Chibo walks in, the bar has a big Brelish flag, a little dusty and worn in here, and pretty sparsely populated this time of day.  There’s a table of five men and women in early 20s in somewhat martial outfits in a Brelish fashion.  They’re playing a board game with tiles where unrevealed side of tile.  There seems to be a tension about them, perhaps killing time.  No obvious weapons other than standard self defense or tools.  Rinoa comes in and orders a Tal (like tea?).  Tough to get a read on the place.

Chibo gets a cool response to trying to bet on the outcome of the negotiation - fishers who might bloody us a bit, or depending on how things go tomorrow there could be some violence.  They respond to Chibo saying that this is a matter of grave importance, and that the tarriff represents a bigger system of oppression and that if they are forced to back down on this topic, what rights they might be sacrificing next.  And might do well to think about belittling others views.  Not willing to abdicate that right and let Eldeen walk over Breland.  Chibo has messaged much of this to Rinoa.  She has bought a round of drinks and accompanies them to the table.  She mentions she’s got a colleague in SPAN, at which the main speaker narrows his eyes a bit.  He gets suspicious, and questions her directly.  She fesses up to being part of SPAN.

At this, he mentions how SPAN should butt well enough out.  Rinoa tries to spin it out that perhaps there’s room for compromise and avoidance of war, and that SPAN would just want to represent their views.  The guy says Gov Bruno has their best interests at heart.  A few more minutes of conversation Rinoa gets the sense that they’re not ready for violence but don’t want to give up their rights.  

While watching the exchange, Chibo sees a guy come out from somewhere, probably not the front door, slipping into a booth near enough to keep in ear shot.  He seems to be late 30s, scrawny, dark hair, nondescript decent quality - seems to be paying attention to this conversation with some interest.  Rinoa is leaving to prepare for the gov’s meeting; the guy gets up and goes through a door in the back.  There’s a door to the right (to exterior, but not necessarily out), to the left, and straight ahead.  He chooses the straight ahead door.  It opens to an interior room that’s fairly dark, with a lantern on a table over a round table.  One guy who might be in charge, the guy from the booth, a few others, including two who pushed me quickly out.  

Listening at the door briefly, I can make out a little bit - a name I may be able to tie to the guy in charge - Eldur - and sounds as though they are coordinating a protest of the negotiations tomorrow morning.  Where and who they are going to collect to bring support for the policies of the governor.  Perhaps more heated than the people I was speaking to, but more just a matter of people trying to put together a protest. 

Rook gets a note back from Lyrandar that any encroachment on free use of waterways is not in the interests of the house.  Not the Silver River in particular but the precedent.

We all go to the meeting, escorted to the admin room.  Gov Bruno Abrell’s got two bodyguards.  He expresses pleasure that SPAN has sent representatives to facilitate the resolution.  Rook presses the case for neutral ground, i.e. the ship.  Gov is not inclined to change the venue.  Rook asks about the security.  Gov says the security is top notch, and that all parties are bringing their own security.  He continues, saying he appreciates Tertius’s knowledge, there is a conflict of interest in the matter of the tarriffs.  

Rook asks about the justification under the treaty of Galifar, and Gov provides a legal opinion from Brelish courts that refer to pre-established case law etc.  The supporting case is not that the ships are not being denied use, but simply taxed.  

At the mention of Eldur, the Gov seems to have a flash of recognition but nothing damning.

Rook becomes convinced that House Orien is behind this…. perhaps to be dealt with next session?

*****

We examine the room where the negotiations will be held.  Well defensible, a door on the left leads to the courtyard of the administrative building for perhaps easy exit.  Spectator seating on two sides, windows out but not to anything that would be worrisome.  

The plan: Chibo and Dane outside interacting with the potential protesters; Ev and Rinoa coordinating the negotiation; Rook as potential expert witness; Xotl inside as show of acceptance of monstrous humanoids; Vandare inside as show of potential SPAN force

We take the ferry across to where we’d expect the Eldeen contingents, and they are already there.  Two honor guard and three other guards on the road.  We escort her to an inn on the non-Xandrar side of the river.  

Our read on Constable Helene is that she is stubborn and doesn’t respect Gov Bruno, and that she feels she’s standing up to a bully.  She is older, a bit scowly, but affable in conversation.

Where is she willing to negotiate?  She seems not to agree that Xandrar has senior rights.  Erlaskar has been functionally independent if not in name for many generations.  She’s not trying to make money on the tarriffs, but standing on principle.  Whatever concession the gov will make, she is willing to match, bu no demonstration of inferiority to his claim.

Why now?  She demurs to put voice to an answer.  Is it odd that the ferry is not impacted (q from Rook about House Orien…)?  She doesn’t find it odd.  Ferry is more difficult to regulate… she suggests the ferry is more important to trade between Eldeen and Breland than the silver river is.  The ferry is the more economic bottleneck.  Rinoa suspects that it would be economically devastating if the ferry was shut down, but worse for Xandrar than Erlaskar.

The next morning we walk with her and her contingent and head straight to the admin building, and taken to the room.  Already seated at side tables near observer gallery:
* Rodrorth Skyvale, Aundarian merchant
* Drimer d’Velderan, House Tharashk representative for Droaam with scribe and Xandrar admin types in observer
Two seats in the middle where Rinoa and Ev go (backs to the fire); others post up around the room.
* Constable Helena Celeste of Erlaskar in the Eldeen Reaches takes her seat, and her guards post up near her.
* Then Bruno Abrell, the governor of Xandrar strides in with two bodyguards.   He greets the Constable and they observe the various proper rites.

Dane and Chibo posted outside, near the building entrance; there are also guards, and somewhat of a city watch presence.  Neither the fishers nor the nationalists seem to care for the Constable; but the Nationalists seem to be more mad at her specifically.  

SPAN’s job is to ensure the treaty of Thronehold are being upheld, that members are working in good faith.  Legal power is held by the Thronehold Tribunal.  Our authority is to ensure the treaty is being upheld.  Both sides agree on the legal premise of the ability to levy tarriffs.  If we find them unreasonable we can intercede with recesses, call them out, etc and point out if their behaviour has larger political ramifications beyond the meeting.  

The negotiations begin.

It becomes clear that both are deeply set in their convictions.  Here are the arguments laid out in round 1:

* Constable: thousands of years the Silver River has been an unobstructed route of commerce.  She is merely reacting to the Gov’s provocation.  
* The Gov then begins calmy and dismissively talking about the defection of Erlaskar from Aundair etc.  
* The Aundairian merchant talks about the need for free (unregulated) commerce to heal the wounds from the last war, pulling some heartstrings.
* then Drimer speaks, banging the drum about the sovereign right of Droaam to manage exports (though we know they are not recognized by treaty, but they are represented by House Tharashk).

Constable gains little from the tarriffs, but can gain capital by getting the Gov to back down.  They each say the tarriffs are going to help the common folk; Ev suggests bringing in Strur Hazecrag.  The two sides try to question Strur but Rinoa shuts them down and asks him to say his piece.  He starts out quite fiery and accusing the Gov of not having the interest of the fisher folk in mind - they are small economically but they feed the community, and then that the Constable is the second hand around their throat.  Rinoa thanks him for his thoughts, and he responds that it is good to see that things are being taken seriously but that his party’s interests are not being taken seriously by either side.  As he’s walking out the door he clearly felt his words were not heard, merely paying lip service to SPAN’s request.  He goes outside and starts to rile up his crowd…

Dane chats with Strur after pulling him away from the crowd a bit - Strur appreciates Dane’s help but has another representative he’d like to speak for his side.  Godin Midz: Dane and Chibo take a moment to speak with him and get a read on him before allowing him in.  

Meanwhile Chibo is keeping an eye out for Eldur - he seems to be flowing between different groups on the nationalist side, and whereever there’s a lull in the fervor, he goes and amps them back up.  Chibo spots him toward the back of the crowd as he leans in to confer with a tall man with sandy brown hair and slacks, with a dragon mark of Passage.  He’s one of the men we encountered at Korunda Gate!  

Eldur was loud and boisterous; then this one was more a clandestine meeting.  The other guy slips away from the crowd and heads into an upscale wine house.  I point out the wine house to Vandare, and go back to looking for Eldur - probably 50+ protesters on each side.  Dane stays put to keep an eye on Eldur as Chibo and Vandare head to the wine house.  

It’s pretty empty.  We spot in the back a corner table facing the door are the Orien man and a female elf both facing the door.  She’s sitting but looks tall, with ice blue eyes and white hair.  She says “this is a private meeting.”  Vandare asks about what they were doing.  Chibo pulls up a chair at the table right next to theirs, uncomfortably close in a largely empty bar.  Chibo notices about the elf, it’s hard to tell how old an elf is - he gets an impression that she is a fairly old and experienced elf.  Chibo places glasses in front of each and offers to pour wine.  Vandare tries to hit on her terribly.  They stand up and go to leave.  Chibo and Vandare leave as well.

Meanwhile the negotiations begin to break down.  The Constable accuses the Gov of making a desperate grab to cover up his lack of control of his province; she dismisses him calling him an egotistical blowhard.  Suddenly the Gov grabs a fire poker and swings at the Constable.  Ev tries to intercede but is not successful; the Constable is on the ground bleeding profusely while the Gov is still standing over her.  Rinoa disarms him and grapples him to keep him from approaching.  

Ev pulls out her wand and sword to intimidate the guards.  The guards hesitate but go into bodyguard mode and grab each of their respective parties.  The gov’s guards pull him away from Rinoa and the const’s guards try to administer first aid.  Vandare goes to take out the Gov’s bodyguard and hits but does not disable him.  

*****

Ev sleeps the gov and his guards, and the crew gets everything under control inside the room.  Once the gov wakes up, he confesses to having made a horrible mistake.  Rook questions him and says “tell me the ways in which Orien is involved in this situation.”  Gov says he is willing to make concessions as long as everything said stays inside the room.  The Constable seems to react to the mention of Orien as well, though in a defensive manner… hmm

The Gov says: we’re all aware that we’re on the brink of some substantial civil unrest; some parties here may have been responsible for taking advantage of that; it seems as though we may have reached a point where playing with that fire may get some of us burned.  I wish to return to the table in good faith, and an essential component of that is that the acrimonious exchange be if not forgiven or forgotten considered with utmost discretion - and precondition that all agree that any resolution is contingent upon confidentiality of negotiations.

Constable: gives curt nod of acknowledgment and says that’s a starting point - we can find that term mutually acceptable.

People take seats again and Rinoa takes up position as moderator one more time.  Rodrorth approaches and agrees to the terms; Drimer seconds the sentiment.  

Gov addresses Rook: admits to conferring with Dagmar d’Orien re: taxation along the river. This is not public knowledge or official/condoned act of House Orien - he doesn’t believe this is a single target endeavor of this individual - and gestures to the Constable, and asks whether she’s had any involvement with Orien.  She says she was unaware that anyone from Orien was involved on the Xandrar side, that she’d made inquiries and her sources said no action on the part of the House but they were pleased to see their prominence increasing due to the situation.  She acknowledges meeting with Dagmar d’Orien - frames it as an interest in protecting their trade interest and importance of keeping trade roads open and nations to be able to operate without interference with one another.

The two main parties and the two merchant groups agree to revoke the tarriffs and return to open trade along the river.  The gov is attempting to salvage his influence and reputation, though he gives up some nationalist support in trade for keeping his attack under wraps.  Ev puts together some notes and a declaration of neutrality for the river.

Everyone wins!  

We spend some time to track down Dagmar.  We start with Eldur - we go to the Golden Gander; Rook and Rinoa persuade him by mentioning how he was working with Dagmar.  He admits that he was speaking with someone from House Orien, and had been contacted to help organize this group and getting paid to make sure the protest was effective at applying political pressure.  But since Dagmar was also working with the Erlaskar contingent - trying to rile up Eldur about him to get some information.  He tells us Dagmar probably already left, and the woman left with him, though they didn’t seem to be traveling together when they arrived.  As a response to our report, we’re told not to pursue Dagmar - interesting information but nothing we should concern ourselves with at this point.



