After the street fight with Bleak, and the resulting Read the Kill attack:

Back on deck, with Bleak, and Chibo bleeding, Rinoa arrives from her mission.  Chibo is in shock from the attack through the Read the Kill and Rinoa goes over to him.  Rook keeps an eye on Bleak.  Dane tries to figure out the symbolic meaning of the symbols from Chibo’s vision.  Pansies are not common in the Merylsward, so not likely to be casually showing up - more of a distinct identifying characteristic.  

We hand over Bleak to the SPAN security team that arrives.  We are called into a meeting with Director Gauss to receive our next assignment.  She says she has reallocated resources to the task we *were* going to be assigned - and instead she wants us to get to the bottom of the Xotl attacks.  Two attacks in Thronehold is too much to ignore.  SPAN will forge a communication through Bleak’s network and our task is to get to the bottom of this.  We will approach Merylsward undercover perhaps breaking into smaller groups to enter inconspicuously.  

Chibo is told that whoever he was “spying” on through Read the Kill must have powerful protective magic in place.  It is not safe to assume they are not aware.  Occultancy lines are considered secure and one-way, collating ambient data rather than direct divination, so probably unlikely for the subject to be aware… but not guaranteed.

Our basic plan is that in Pontoon Pete’s, Dane will be the “face” while Rinoa is his bodyguard.  Rook will be the tail.  Chibo will be nearby as an overwatch to keep an eye out for surprises.  

At Pontoon Pete’s
* Dane being the Bleak impersonator
* Rinoa inside, being intimidating by the door
* Chibo in the Pontoon Pete’s, scanning with Detect Thoughts.
* Evertonette and Xotl across the street, waiting to rendezvous with Chibo

At 2nd meeting site
* Rinoa accompanies Dane - who’s bringing a gagged Loz (holding crystal)
* Evertonette (using stealth), accompanies Chibo & Xotl invisible approach side entrance

Chibo is in traditional Talenta Plains shaman garb, riding on the back of Mr. Stubbs.  He shows up solo a day before Dane/Bleak and Xotl.  

*****

We fly to Owl’s Perch a couple of days early. Sea team (Xotl/Mozy (with a silly hat) and Evertonette) arrives a day in advance.  Ev performs as a wandering bard and gets some information about the lay of the land.  Chibo comes in by land a day in advance.  The land team, Rook as goatee Rook, Loz/Xotl, Rinoa, and Dane/Bleak.

*****

We open on the goatee Rook, Loz/Xotl, Rinoa, and Dane/Bleak crew.  They arrive and take rooms at an inconspicuous inn.  They get in before sunset and settle in.  Rook procures local transport - a wagon - password “Agawa” do what they say.  

We move onto Pontoon Pete’s.  We walk by the mills, the ice house, the salt packing facility; we arrive at the working class tavern with a shingle of a raft with pontoons and a stalwart captain at the bow.  There are probably 50 people; there is a din making it hard to hear conversation.  They find a booth and sit down, with Dane/Bleak wearing the grey doublet with a yellow pansy.  Chibo is at the bar nearby, keeping an eye.  Evertonette is outside, doing a street performance, with Xotl playing tambourine.  After about 20 minutes of nothing conspicuous; then Dane is approached by a slender older man with a streak of white hair.  He notes Dane/Bleak’s flower and asks if he can have a seat.  Dane suspects this is the person he is supposed to meet.

The man asks if Dane has brought any interesting wares to Merylsward, and Dane pulls out the counterfeited Xotl cloak.  The man expresses interest in acquiring the shipment.  As Chibo watches this conversation takes place, he gets the impression that there’s a guy middling height and build who is mingling… not sure what he’s doing but he’s paying attention like Chibo’s paying attention.  The first man turns to Dane and suggests Dane is eager to relieve himself of the shipment.  Dane suggests they go together to the hotel with the fake Xotl; the man asks about security detail.  Dane tells him only his bodyguard and one other.  (Rinoa’s low roll is used to blind the other’s insight).  The other man says he’s got three.  

*****

They leave and the man asks three burly gentlemen to follow them.  Ev and Xotl follow along covertly.  As we all approach the hotel, Dane, Rinoa, and the contact and his crew enter the building, and the local constabulary (apparently) is entering the building and interposing between us and our goal.  

As Dane and Rinoa go in, Dane knocks on the door in a code, Rook opens the door, and the contact says, “You are as good as they say you are” and mentions that the payment will be made.  At this point the door bursts open and the constables burst in and order them to drop their weapons.  The contact and his minions point to Dane and say “here he is, with the slave.”  The guards line up to block the exit, grab Loz/Xotl, and tell the others to put their hands on the wall.  Dane activates his gorget and attempts to use Orders Demand but fails miserably, and gets shot three times for it.  Evertonette, realizing the guards seem legit, barges in flashing a SPAN badge.  They tell her to drop her weapons and put her hands on the wall while they figure it out.  

The lieutenant says to let the captive tell them what has happened.  They pull of Loz/Xotl’s hood and ask him his name, and he responds “Xotl Sharpknee.”  When asked if they have captured him and forced him to work, he replies affirmative (totally truthfully).  Hiram, the contact, suggests that while the guards are booking this crew, Hiram would be happy to take the goblin into protective custody and seeing to his well being while it gets sorted out.  Evertonette notes a note of smugness when he makes this suggestion.

Xotl and Chibo follow Hiram and his goons from a safe distance, using Gose as a scout.  They reach a manor with a stone and iron fence/wall around it and hedges and topiary around it.  Hiram sends the goons away as he enters, and meets the other guy from the bar.  Slipping in through bars of the fence, Xotl and Chibo approach the house stealthily and Gose prowls the house to find them in a sitting room.  Through the window, she can see Hiram asking Loz/Xotl questions about SPAN and such.  Chibo is positive that it doesn’t matter what the answers are - he suspects Hiram is reading Loz/Xotl’s thoughts.  

Chibo and Xotl approach the house and go around the back door.  There is a note attached to the door.  It is a scroll sealed with wax that is still warm.  Chibo quickly opens it: “Xotl, should your prowling bring you to my door, I would appreciate you announcing yourself and entering.  If you are accompanied by another, they are welcome as well.  But I will have words with you tonight.”

Gose tracks down the other guy - a modest room in the servant’s quarters, reading a book by lamplight.  Hiram continues to sit in thought in sitting room.  Chibo pops Gose into existence in the flames of the fireplace and she stalks to a desk and grabs a pen.  As this happens, Chibo feels a voice come through the Gose connection - it has some interference but still fairly clear.  “There is no need for the theatrics.  I assume this is the bearer of the book.”  Chibo communicates back “We have no reason to trust you.”  His response is polite but firm that Xotl cannot evade him.  And Gose is on the desk writhing.  Chibo politely tells the voice to piss off and releases Gose back to her dimension.  The two book it into the forest to camp for the night, and Chibo casts Leomund’s Tiny Hut.

In the middle of the night, a figure approaches, wearing a cape of stars.  It is Kalos Bombyx!  Apparently.  He wants to speak with Xotl privately.  Highly mistrusting, the two try to figure out how they can speak without Chibo overhearing.  Kalos shakes his head sadly and starts to walk away.  Xotl rushes out, of course, and starts to speak with him.  Kalos says he’s in danger, and asks to see Xotl’s crystal.  Xotl tests him with a question about the adventures of Kalos Bombyx, and Kalos laughs and says good that Xotl’s testing him.  Xotl, appeased, hands the crystal.  Kalos inspects it briefly then hands it back.  He tells Xotl not to trust anyone - they all want him to fail.  His destiny is to gain power and use it as he sees fit.  He tells him not to let anyone else touch the crystal - anyone who wants to is trying to make him fail.  He says not to trust anyone, even the halfling, even his other teammates - they mean well but will betray him.  If you are true to yourself and heed my advice, we will meet again.  

The next morning, Xotl and Chibo go back to town.  Chibo dresses in SPAN regalia posing as a SPAN lawyer, and brings Xotl with him as a paralegal, demanding to see their clients.  They communicate their findings via Awakened Mind while discussing mundane legal matters out loud.  After a couple of hours, the lieutenant comes in with Loz who was brought in by Hiram; he says it is all cleared up, sorry about the misunderstanding, maybe let the local PD know next time when an operation is going down.

*****

Dane Knows a Guy who Knows a Guy.  He reaches out and asks his contact about Hiram.  Hiram runs the ice house and hires a bunch of ice cutters to go up to the mountains and fetch ice to help preserve meats and fishes.  He is highly admired by the community; everyone knows him, he has done everyone a solid, he is generous and kind.  No one in town would say anything bad about him.  He highly recommends him if we want to do business with him.

Chibo checks on Gose at some point while we all try to plan about how we can confront Hiram despite his high regard in town.  Gose is “corrupted” somewhat like missing pixels, static, around the edges from her ordeal with Hiram.  Chibo asks what caused such damage, and she says she will recover, but was forced to act as a conduit for “anathema” - the same source of anathema as the crystal.  When asked if it is the same source of anathema as Xotl’s crystal, she says “same power, different wellspring.”

*****

We describe three potential actions: meeting Hiram face to face, investigating the ice house and other business dealings, and learning more about his lurking henchman.  We can also appeal for authorization (e.g. warrants) from SPAN to take action on Hiram if necessary.  

We decide to ask for authorization, then investigate the two questions before facing Hiram.  Ev gets solid but not bullet proof authorization.

Dane knows from his contact: The henchman is Cody Amos - works closely with Hiram for the past 15 years or so.  Whenever Hiram needs to know that something is done right, he sends Cody.  We can follow up later.

We decide to case the Ice House before entering.  Externally, we see it is approximately 200 foot diameter, low arched ceiling, with a couple of people-access doors and cart-access warehouse doors.  Empty carts arrive, carts laden with ice leave.  There appears to be an airlock between the outside and inner room.  Many of the employees appear to be the burly type but we do not see anyone who appears to be traditional security.  Some people appear to be paying attention to the “private” fridges where customers keep temperature-sensitive goods etc.  

Rook will pose as a potential customer looking for ice, with Dane acting as a bodyguard, with an empty cart.  Chibo and Evertonette will get into the empty cart, invisible, to get into the building to search for documents and info.  Rinoa, Xotl, and Loz will hang out relatively inconspicuously.  Rook, as Philo Moody, negotiates saying he has come into a bumper crop of red herring and will require some ice to store it.  The guard asks if he’s got an account, he says he’s got cash; the cart rolls in.  Ev and Chibo exit the cart and find a corner, as one of the attendants starts to fill the cart with some straw.  

Ev and Chibo enter the main office through the back door, using Rook’s pompous questions “Is your ice ethically sourced?” as a distraction.  There is a small hallway with a couple of doors.  Rook’s continued questioning draws out any folks from the offices allowing Ev and Chibo full access.  There’s a modest desk, locked cabinets behind, an opened ledger on the desk.  Labels on the cabinets indicate “caravans” and “ledgers.”  Chibo inspects the current ledger while Evertonette checks the cabinets.  

The patterns Chibo sees is that this place does not seem to be making any money - paying high wages, etc - where it could really be making plenty of money.  It seems as if the company is being managed to keep the community happy, rather than to make money.  Not suspicious in the books, but interesting.  Not mismanagement, but legit.  

Ev inspects further the “caravans” documents quickly using her new Documancy skill.  For the ice supply caravans, she notes that there seems to be a trade-secret route along the coast, up to a particular valley, with Hiram listed as caravan personnel 5-6 times a year.  She notes it’s about as close as you can get to Ashtakala while remaining on the Eldeen border.  It’s also 20 miles more than you’d typically need to go to get ice.  She then notes the ledgers, Cody is reasonably well paid, not insanely so, and payroll wise it seems though there are a number of caravan guards on the payroll, usually 3-4 caravans before they move on, though Orien is paid to run the actual caravans.  Note also that the caravans have almost never paid out life insurance - unusual for typical caravans.  The ones Hiram has been on have almost no instance of trouble except perhaps bandits or a wandering monster.  Additionally, Hiram tends to bring larger hauls; but perhaps more importantly, more time is spent up there, as the same number of carvers are cutting more ice.  

Between the two of us, with Arcana and History, we put together the idea that Ashtakala as a city of basalt and brass, filled with Rakshasas and demons, filled with ancient artifacts and treasures, as well as perils.  The Wastes are barren ridges with rivers of lava and plagued by fiends and cannibals and numerous portals to the plane of Khyber.  Each of the tribes of the Waste worships some Being created in the aftermath of the fight between Khyber and Syberis and Eberron.

Finally, Ev looks for someone who’s been on the payroll multiple times, and also resides in Merylsward.  Sylvain Duroyon has been a guard on multiple caravans.  

Rook chats up the guards, to find out more about business opportunities - seems like herring are a good deal.  Not much else.

*****

We regroup at the hotel.  Ev and Chibo relate their information.  Sylvain is our first target; one big question is whether anyone leaves the caravan during the trips.  And Cody does not seem to be on the longer-term trips.  

The Rising Tide is now in town.  Rook hangs out with the d’Lyrandar captain who brought the boat.  We approach somewhat disguised - Chibo at a separate table; Dane is the point person.  Dane is always trying to match her energy - dressed in the local style, unkempt from a day of work, and a mustache.  He approaches Sylvain and offers to buy her a drink.  She offers that she’s a guard on the ice run caravan.  He introduces himself as “Tristan”.  They hit it off well.  Dane is trying to get her to talk about the guard job - something a little more steady and good-paying.  She says this is the best job - easy money - not sure what all the fuss is about the ice horns.  She’ll do this as long as they’ll have her.  Cake walk, easy money.  He pushes farther, asking about the runs, 3 days there - 3-4 days there while the ice cutters work (but 10 days when Hiram joins) - 3-4 days back.  When the boss tags along, he goes to his cabin alone for a few days.  Bingo!

Evertonette walks up and tells Dane to come with her - he left her at the caravan, and he’s coming back with her.  Sylvain stands up and tells Ev to piss off - “Tristan” is coming with her.  Ev intimidates her while Chibo hexes her wisdom.  Sylvain quickly surrenders while Evertonette hauls Dane out of the bar.

*****

We decide that since the next caravan is weeks away, we should just take the Tide up to the area where the ice is harvested and find the cabin to inspect it.

With some history checks, Xotl knows that in Ashtakala there are rumors of a secret council called the Lords of Dust led by the Bleak Council; mission of Lords of Dust is to get revenge on the dragons and coatls and their descendants, and to free the Overlords.  Dane, knowing the nature of fiends from the Silver Flame, when the blood of Khyber fell it became the demons; the greatest are the overlords.  There are 30 or so overlords who ravaged the world for thousands of years, until the blood of Siberys (Coatls) and the dragons teamed up to rise against the overlords to bind them due to the sacrifice of the Coatls to form the Silver Flame.  Not all Overlords are known to this day, they are bound spiritually (in Khyber) and to physical vessels (prisons of a material nature, indestructible, perhaps on Eberron, but not inseparable).  Vessels may be the size of the house; in the area around it, while the Overlord is unconscious, can still manifest its identity around the vessel.  They are indestructible but pieces can be broken off to extend a smaller sphere of influence.  

We get underway the next morning (after Pontoon Pete’s), it takes about four hours.  After we crest the mountains, we can see extending to the horizon a wasteland of black volcanic terrain with some open calderas and slimy red moss, totally inhospitable.  We pass a fair number of sources of decent ice (the mountains are perpetually shrouded in ice) and make our way deeper into the valley.  Chibo notes a series of black figures emerging emerging from a dark cloud above us, similar to the vultures we encountered before.  There are four vaguely humanoid shapes with vulture-like wings, about 15-20 feet apart from each other.  Xotl and Ev miss with spell attacks.  Dane casts Spiritual Guardians and calls us to him.  The beasts arrive but need to spend extra movement to close with us.  Chibo hexes one and hits it with an Eldritch Blast.  Rinoa slashes with her Zulaat at the same one hitting twice and the flesh smolders, and Xotl hits it with two scorching rays (though it seems to be resistant).  Ev Shatters two though one saves.

Dane strikes at one with his Shillelagh-infused Warhammer but it bounces off; but a spiritual weapon spears it.  His Spiritual Guardians strike for additional damage.  One of the demons flaps its wings and sends a cloud of spores engulfing many of us.  Rook and Xotl start to cough and wheeze from the spores.  The one next to Evertonette screeches; Chibo and Ev are now stunned until the end of the creature’s next turn.

One lashes out at Dane but misses twice.  Another beast lashes out with a spore attack.  Rinoa is suffering from spores but lashes out with her Zulaat.  Xotl casts a Chaos Bolt of thunder damage hitting for a good chunk of damage.  Dane smashes with his Warhammer and leaves a radiant hammer-shaped dent.  That creature again shrieks, and Dane and Chibo are again stunned.  Another attacks Ev and hits for a good slash.  The bloodied one attacks Rinoa violently.  

Rinoa takes a second wind and attacks the demon in front of her, slashing its head from its body.  She moves to the one near Evertonette and slashes it well.  Xotl fires a chaos bolt at the same one Rinoa and Ev are attacking - lightning damage does not seem to be as effective.  Ev slashes with her sword but it appears to be resistant to a non-magical weapon.  Dane cannot act, but the two near Dane attack him rather ineffectively though one hits.  Another slashes out at Rinoa.  Chibo wakes from his stun and hexes, then smashes, the most harmed beast with two eldritch blasts for some serious damage.  Rinoa hits the same one, though does not take it out.  Xotl follows up with another chaos bolt, but misses.

Evertonette curses one but it does not seem to be affected.  So she smashes it.  Dane shakes himself loose from being stunned, pulls out some holy water, and blesses everyone in range.  He also uses Orders Demand to give Rinoa another attack and she nearly finishes it off.  One nearly finishes off Dane, and the other knocks down Rinoa and savages her.  Dane’s spiritual weapon kills the beast.  Chibo pours a potion down Rinoa’s throat to keep her from dying, and she leaps up and attacks the creature, then rallies Dane.

Xotl strikes with another chaos bolt at the one near Rinoa, and Ev strikes out with a defensive flourish.  Dane’s spiritual weapon lashes out but misses, and then he destroys it with a guiding bolt.  The remaining one lashes out then leaps over the side fleeing.  Chibo, Ev, and Xotl all hit it on its way out, but it is still up.  It gets lost in the trees and takes cover.  

Chibo performs an Occultant Read the Kill - and channels Dane into the mix.  His reading goes from an image of squabbling vultures creatures, moving backwards, over the borders of the demon wastes, to a scene further removed from the waste - a wasteland of volcanic class and swirling dust, and a shimmering field - and as I try to pierce this field I feel a searing heat - I am looking through the eyes of a creature, but instead of seeing seeing this field/dome, the shimmering field, it is a stark and immediate difference.  An oasis, a city of towers of brass and basalt of an architectural style never encountered - chaotic towers extending in all directions and walls of shards of obsidian, a gallery of floating glass, snippets of supernatural environments - this is what the creature has seen of Ashtakala - much truth to the rumor that there is something there.  I may be the only person to have seen beyond the veil to what is actually there in Ashtakala.  I draw connections between this creature between this creature and Merylsward and Hiram, and get a read on the mysterious shadowy figure I saw before.  I find myself looking at the manor we followed Loz to - a shadowy figure in a sitting room, again no identifying features, and the figure lifts a hand toward me and I feel a weight impede upon me.  As I feel my mind is about to break, the field is surrounded by filaments of the Silver Flame.  As I see through the helix of Silver Flame, I see the face and it is not Hiram but an anthropomorphic tiger face.

We do a long rest, swap out some spells, and prepare to go check out Hiram’s cabin.  After a little searching, we find shelters and evidence of ice cutting.  Not far from the makeshift camp, we find a cabin overlooking south toward the Elder.  Stealthily we check things out.  15’ by 15’, single room cabin.  We don’t see tracks or signs of habitation.  It is quiet and quite lovely.  We find a modest bed and a decent stock of wood, cleaned fireplace, a shelf with books - common histories of Khorvaire, Aundair, etc.

Evertonette is pretty sure this cabin that if this cabin is used 50-60 days a year, doesn’t look like it.  Chair, desk, but no scuff marks - book spines are not broken in - doesn’t have the level of being lived in.  Chibo gets a similar read - but pulls from one set of clothes, finds a small tuft of black and orange striped fur.  

We recall that the vessels and bindings of overlords are not breakable - though certain events can transpire to effect the release of the overlords - a manifestation of the evil that overlord represents.  Ev recalls tales of the domain of some of the overlords from her studies of the Gashkala - The Heart of Winter - the Horned Prince - The Gatekeeper - the Rage of War - the Daughter of Khyber (who holds dominion over the dragons) - Wild Heart (lycanthropes) - Oathbreaker who sows dissent among allies.  
  
*****

COME CLEAN ON THE PROPHECY FRAGMENT: Chibo approaches Rinoa to describe his unease with connections to the prophecy fragment he knows.  On the one hand, he may be making unwarranted leaps, on another hand, he could accidentally help the prophecy become fulfilled.  Discussing with Rinoa: 
The fractured jewel will splinter when the helix-born shouts down the cloud of silver with the mountain’s heart; an old spider will watch as it weaves a web of shadows.

(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): I think the first refers to Xotl's crystal, a splinter of a larger crystal that would house one of the overlords or whatever
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): I am pretty sure the helix-born shouting down a cloud of silver could refer to Dane
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): thoughts?
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): mountain's heart? old spider, web of shadows?
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): Interesting that Dane is part of the vision you had
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): Dane or some silver flame
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): these prophecies are all so vague that they can be widely interpreted... but this seems alarmingly apropos
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): it seemed that Xotl was in this struggle alone.. given the crystal attached to his body, but Dane's involvement in the vision makes the design seem more grand
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): Dane's connection to the silver flame may be the key to relieving Xotl of his burden... and possibly key to unleashing this Overlord
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): agreed - and knowing how rakshasas work playing the long game, could it be they've set this team up in some way to unleash the overlord?
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): just when I'm starting to trust the tallfolk this comes along!
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): interesting idea... could the Rakshasas somehow have ties in SPAN and influenced our team roster?
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): yeah what if? But the crystal did not come along until later...? unless somehow the rakshasas knew about his initial encounter with it, and arranged for him to be on a team with a Silver Flame cleric
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): but if the rakshasas do not know this portion of the prophecy, and seems like Scrimford Shaw kept it safe, then we could use this to turn it against the rakshasas?
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): yeah it seems like that leap of logic is a step too far, but these creatures seem extremely wise and plotting
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): and that fragment was found after we were already a team
(To Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): even if it fell into the wrong hands - since someone at SPAN must certainly know of it
(From Rinoa Kisala (Clay)): true true, I wonder if there is someone in Thronehold we could ask about how Rakshasa operate and if there are any concerns about such types of schemes

Dane is reluctant to hear the prophecy.  Rook would be interested in it.  Chibo comes up with a game to conceal the prophecy while seeing if anyone might know something about any of its bits.  He runs through a few red herrings while inserting a few actual phrases, playing them on cards for the team while making some cool ominous magical effects.

	▪	The ancient forests beyond the southern ocean; 
	▪	Castle of ice in the heart of green; 
	▪	The molten moons; 
	▪	Cloud of silver with a mountain’s heart; 
	⁃	Rook isn’t sure whether mountain’s heart might mean Mror Holds - cloud-fringed mountains known for silver - Iron Roots or Hoarfrost Mtns, or volcanic mountains within the demon wastes.
	▪	the blood sky reigns over the red crescent; 
	▪	The helix born; 
	⁃	Dane gets a flash from this, silver flame referred to as binding, containing, enwrapping, containment - does not have a huge body of literature that uses helix terminology.  An incidental way of seeing something wrapping something - not a particularly potent piece of Silver Flame terminology.  
	▪	Storm lord’s scion;
	▪	The fractured jewel will splinter;
	⁃	Xotl seems (and others as well) to recognize it as a potential reference to his crystal
	▪	Old spider weaves a web of shadows; 
	▪	Will spawn a plague of a thousand years

Main idea: we need to figure out what he wants, and keep that from happening, or deny him what he wants.  He seems to want something from Xotl.  Could it be enough to simply disrupt his current ice establishment?  Without knowing exactly what he wants, we’re going in blind.

We are also interested in investigating the “real life” of Kalos Bombax to understand who that was that approached Xotl.

We also want to reach out to Wutgarek of the Ghaash’kala for additional information on our potential enemy.  Dane uses a Sending spell to reach out and briefly describes the situation (in 25 words or less).  Response: “Overwhelming force.  Spells won’t work.  Non magic weapons cannot strike true.  Will flee if weakened.  Its heart can be pierced by an agent of good.”

Eventually we come around to a vague sort of plan… disrupt the underlying good will for Hiram in the town, and hope that in defending it, he reveals more about his true plan.  We can disrupt the ice supply by blowing up bridges, disrupting caravans, and messing up the existing stock of ice to remove his funding base, which is how he gains support of the community.  Xotl suggests using Dragon’s Breath to spew acid breath all over the ice house to spoil the stock.

*****

In planning for the plan, we discuss a bit about the options for Chibo to use Soul Witness on Hiram without dying.

Mind blank would be a handy spell to block out mental assaults; but it is far too powerful for my current level.  But could potentially requisition some resistance to psychic potions (Chibo does so); also Dane can cast Protection from Evil and Good.

We are granted enough time to do this right, based on excellent work by Evertonette’s documancy.  

Step 1a: interrupt ice mining operations and caravans.  We begin some of our harassment campaign, giving the impression of a force of bandits waiting for the ice carts to ransack - casting some suspicion on the Children of the Frost, a survivalist cult... Also we knock out a few bridges. This raises the cost of doing business by making runs take longer and the charges House Orien charges for protection.  

Step 1b: sabotage ice house stock.  Xotl and Chibo sneak in under the cover of invisibility and darkness, and Xotl uses a twinned dragon’s breath spell on himself and Gose to taint all the ice scheduled for a week or so out, and then sneak back out.

Step 1e: set up competing business to capitalize on disruptions.  Rook masquerades as the Red Herring salesman.  He can turn the elemental emitter to generate pure blocks of ice by freezing water, then tapping House Lyrandar connections to capture the resulting icebergs to haul them to port.  

Step 1c: Hiram’s liquid assets.  He doesn’t keep much on hand, but he has an account with the small local Bank of Kundarak.  We could add a bank heist but that would probably draw too much attention.

Step 1d: Sabotage Hiram’s real estate holdings to set up the illusion of insurance fraud.  Chibo and Ev create some fraudulent books to indicate that the building being torched was losing money.  We plant these in a safe and set up to be relatively protected from fire (so it can be found later).  Then Xotl lobs a fireball into the oven.  

Step 2: the social distrust campaign.  We alternately cast aspersions on Hiram’s current business acumen, he’s not as good as he used to be… maybe something is not right with Hiram…. I heard he’s hiring goblins to pay them less and cut hours of the other local humanoids… etc.  These all play well together to cause some whispers.

Then after some of these have started to take hold, we “show up” as SPAN to investigate rumors.  We start to chat with locals to find out about rumors they’ve heard (that we’ve planted…).  We are generally staying out of Hiram’s circles, even as the environment of the town has changed in the last six weeks.  

Chibo and Rook investigate and find Hiram put in a claim on his insurance, and there’s a Kundarak team investigating.  He’s calling in more favors than he would typically, and calling in social capital to keep his debts paid.  He’s definitely on edge of solvency if he can’t fix something soon.  We are definitely undermining his social and economic position here.  There hasn’t been any particular attack on our establishment, e.g. a teamster’s union strike… 

Dane looks into motivation.  He gets the sense that Hiram’s responses are calculated.  We’d expect to see more desperation or acting in haste.  He’s losing money and his revenue streams are drying up, but his response seems measured and not panicked.  

We decide to offer to meet Hiram at his mansion.  Ev puts together a request to meet in person.  Hiram while he respects our jurisdiction, he has unfortunately been beset by complications.  However, he would gladly join us for an interview in the town plaza in a teahouse at 5 pm.

Chibo and Rook scope the place out for traps, enchantment, suspicious things.  It’s on an elevated cobbled portion of a plaza, pedestrian only, many businesses and shops that open into the plaza mostly restaurants.  We can see the entire courtyard from where we expect to be sitting.  If we wanted to put people in good positions we could slip them into a balcony for ranged shots.  Ev will be in the balcony; Chibo, Xotl, and Dane will meet Hiram face to face; Rook will man the Rising Tide.  

Chibo quaffs his potion; they walk into the plaza and see Hiram and Cody at the table with three chairs opposite.  We sit and Hiram thanks us for accommodating him.  He seems like he’s just interested in meeting with us.  Chibo says to cut the shit, there are things going on that aren’t right.

Hiram uses awakened mind to ask Chibo if this is a conversation that should be out loud.  They begin to converse in Awakened Mind.  Hiram begins to probe using Detect Thoughts.  Dane protects him with a Protection from Good and Evil.  Chibo uses Dispel Magic to break the Detect Thoughts, but only after Hiram says “my my, Chibo, you do have your fingers in a lot of pies!”  Hiram turns to Dane, and says “I do believe I know your family!”  They discuss the Lycanthropic purge etc.  To Chibo he says, “point: you.”  But then recasts it.

Soul Witness: I get an image of the Rakshasa I saw in the Read the Kill.  I see an area I don’t recognize - wasteland, bone-white sand and volcanic lava.  I see a group of Rakshasa surrounding a crystal the size of a house, chanting, and one has a dagger of obsidian or similar.  The crystal is a deep iridescent red, resembling a much larger version of Xotl’s crystal.   In very elaborate robes, one rakshasa uses the dagger to chip off a shard and he hands it to another who departs with it.  This repeats as more chips and more rakshasas.  I hear a repeated phrase, a chant.  I hear what I gather is a name, that I can understand - a chant to Eldrantulku, the Oathbreaker, elder of discord.  As I see this, I feel the tremendous psychic force assail me, but I am gratefully buffered by the potion.  He then says to my bruised brain, I’ve shown you mine, and you’ve shown me yours.

I dispel his illusion, and before me sits a tall, strongly built anthropomorphic tiger.  Chibo pushes back shouting “Hiram isn’t a werewolf - he is a rakshasa!”  Xotl has jumped on the table to shout “Fuck you” as he sees Chibo’s ears bleeding.  Initiative is rolled.

Ev leaps from the balcony and approaches but can’t yet engage.  Hiram does a backhanded slash and rips out Cody’s throat.  He roars to the general plaza and announces, “SPAN your manipulations have doomed Merylsward - we’ve replaced your neighbors, friends, spouses, etc… and Merylsward’s purpose will soon be unveiled.”

Evertonette believes Hiram’s words, but Chibo is pretty sure that by directing this flashy announcement with what’s the current state of paranoia in the town, it may not be true so much as a lever to do more damage.  

*****

Dane opens his case and pulls out a Brazier that he lights with Sacred Flame.  Xotl uses sorcery to make Ev’s sword magical, but she misses.  Rook guns the ship toward us from afar.  Chibo hides in shadows.  Hiram Suggests to Xotl that the crowd is all werewolves and that Xotl should kill as many as possible - and Xotl finds this reasonable.

Dane’s Brazier lights up with a 25’ column of Silver Flame that spirals up and around Hiram.  Dane calls up on the flame to banish this demon.  He then summons his own spirit weapon.

Chibo, attempting to distract Xotl out of his Suggestion, attacks him with an eldritch blast and hits.  Unfortunately it does nothing to distract him.  So Xotl attacks some villagers.  Evertonette misses again, and Hiram disengages and dives into a crowd of bystanders.

Rook onboard the Tide tries launching an icy blast to freeze Hiram in place.  Rinoa leaps down from the deck and slams at Hiram with the Zulaat - piercing him and dissolving the flesh around the wound.  She nails him again and his flesh is more resistant to the additional damage… she hits one more time.  Xotl continues to fire into the crowd and gibber on about werewolves.  Dane tries to convince Xotl he is a werewolf… “I was the werewolf the whole time!”  While Xotl ends up believing him, so do several in the crowd.  He then dashes past Chibo, Rinoa, and the serpent, blessing them all, and finally strikes at the Rakshasa futilely to distract.  He allows Orders Demand to give Rinoa an extra attack, which misses badly.

Chibo, knowing they won’t harm him, launches Eldritch Blasts at his eyes to distract him.  Hiram lashes out and rips a civilian’s spine out.  The winged serpent of Silver Flame leaps down and attempts to constrict Hiram.  He is restrained but does not fail his concentration, so Xotl hits another couple of civilians with Chaos Bolts, but suffers terrible leg cramps due to a wild magic surge.  Evertonette dashes forward but has no time to make an attack.

Hiram casts some sort of telepathic command on Rinoa; she succumbs, though it breaks the spell on Xotl.  Rook drops the ship lower and leaps down to attack Hiram with his Kraken whip.  All three tendrils hit!  But Hiram saves against grappling and for concentration.  Rinoa turns to Dane and begins to attack him with a brutal flurry of blows.  

Dane heals Chibo, Xotl, and himself and then breaks away toward the Rakshasa.  He then uses Shillelagh against Hiram.  Chibo launches two more Eldritch Blasts and begins to move toward him, drawing his Stabacus hoping it may count as a magical weapon.  The coiled serpent strikes, taking advantage of Chibo’s distraction, and strikes hard, doing significant damage and breaking its concentration on the spell.

Xotl hobbles forward on his cramping legs, and then hides at a closer point.  Ev attacks, and does damage, but does not do any extra apparent damage.  Hiram snarls at Evertonette, wrenches his arms across one another, and he pulls out a black screaming void and he vanishes from the center of the coils.  Xotl attempts to counter spell but the Rakshasa gets away.

Rook clears back to the ship to ensure no Rakshasas are on board.  Chibo boosts Dane’s voice to amplify a message, saying what they just witnessed was a Rakshasa - and that the chaos was its goal.  There is no immediate danger.  The crowd calms generally, and the guards remain alert but not hostile.  The Captain approaches, and demands more information.  Dane explains that we’d received a report that a well-beloved merchant, Hiram, had been killed and replaced by a Rakshasa, and we discovered the truth.  He threatened the town and began to attack indiscriminately.  He is an unimaginably powerful beast who had overtaken the will of a couple of our team members, and they have since broken from his spell as he’s fled to another plane.

The guard asks if it’s true that the Rakshasa replaced citizens with shapeshifters.  Chibo steps in and explains that he can detect shapeshifters and would be happy to help ensure that none are present.  The guard asks if we can stay for a few days to ensure the peace, and we can quell the immediate issues.  

The next issue is that the ice business that provides resources for the town is now gone.  The Orien teamsters refuse to travel to the mountains; but perhaps we can get House Lyrandar to use elemental emitters to create more ice.  Rook uses time and social capital to get something going to keep it on foot, but not to prosper… this may not be unintentional - Hiram may have fostered an ice-dependent industry intentionally to sow disruption.

With Mr. Stubbs to help haul ice, the teamsters may be able to afford to pay better caravan guards.  It will not be as profitable, but will be better suited to keep the economy afloat.  But then, we do the Mr. Stubbs coffee vignette - and the Merylsward economy now has a new potential resource of Dino coffee.

In review, Dane’s force would have been effective at rendering Hiram ineffective.  His escape means he didn’t lose any real time, but planning time would be hard.  We staved off an existential threat to Merylsward.  

Chibo does a read the kill on the charred bones of the villagers.  An affirmation that this person falling and crashing into another and so on - a sea of people falling; and then parallel an image of a white bridge between it and the next one, making the others untouched.  

*****

Chibo comes clean on the prophecy.  “The fractured jewel will splinter when the helix-born shouts down the cloud of silver with the mountain’s heart; an old spider will watch as it weaves a web of shadows”

As Xotl mentions the fractured jewel as potentially Cyre considered to be the jewel of the empire of Galifar.  Evertonette recalls that Cyre was not the gem, but the empire was a gem with the facets - the fractured jewel could be the entire empire.  Dane is pretty sure the helix-born is not related to silver flame - entirely incidental to the iconography of the silver flame.  



