Black obsidian book - no hinge apparently, but opens cleanly to a page in the middle, textureless black with a single unknown symbol.  It looks like a simplified dragon mark, but not a recognized one.  I attempt to make a mark on the page, but it is difficult to make out the ink on the page.  Perhaps I need to find special inks to write in it?  Need to visit Madame Korbala - gnome shopkeeper of the Crossed Quills bookstore and arcanum shop.

Dane: Raised to Rank 1 Liaison d’être - always knows someone who knows someone.  Learns of his old acquaintance Lakeith of Thrane, a SPAN official, as a point of connection.  

Rinoa: raised to Rank 1 Decisionist - meets with Zindledack - receives lesson on how to parlay - how to stave off combat to have a brief exchange/negotiation with most potential adversaries - against a potential foe, can invite to talk rather than violence.  

Xotl: summoned to Akbar Scott - increases to rank 1, to Scott’s apparent disapproval - quills, ink, coin sack, and ledger book.  Also a brim of nearly transparent green on a band of leather - a hoards person’s visor - can appraise market value of non-magical items.  

We choose our rooms in The Rising Tide and get things set up.  

At the bookstore, Xotl finds a book of Callus Bombax - 101 ways to cook chicken!  Chibo shows Madame Korbala a few runes including the black book one.  She recognizes even the obscure ones, does not recognize the false one, and notes the black book rune.  There’s a concept of certain symbols, but you occasionally get a typesetter who in a fit of self indulgence creates something that looks like a rune but represents all the letters in a script alphabet - looks like it is that, but for much more meaningful and complex runes - this is “all encompassing” - not meaningful on its own, but in conjunction with something else - a monogram of runes.

Xotl asks Rosa to cook a recipe from his book.  He chooses boiled swan, but she recommends roasted chicken with rosemary and garlic.

After dinner we head to the Silver Spigot.  A weekend, it’s well packed, there’s a string quartet playing upbeat music.  Rook tells us all about the play he saw the night before.  Finally, as Xotl is coming back from getting a round, a beer is poured on him from the balcony - he drops the beers.  It’s the goblin from the first thing - Toby!  Dane and Ev go upstairs to have a chat with Toby, with Rinoa.  

Dane uses Orders Demand to get a good first impression.  The group is all part of the Security Division - not qualified to be Intervention branch.  Toby is stocky for a goblin, and not attractive even for a goblin.  Banter back and forth while Toby basically sneers at everyone; his tablemates are starting to buy in.  Rook tries to convince him that Rinoa is queen shit and he’s not really buying it, but Rinoa then steps up and intimidates them.  The bugbears are intimidated; Toby leans in as if to whisper, then says “fuck off” - trying to get the attention of the other security folks as if to get them on his side.  Dane persuades the crowd that Toby’s making a scene.  Toby throws some coins on the table and Dane buys a round for the other security people at the table in Xotl’s name.  

Xotl tells us Toby’s just a mean guy, and has an inferiority complex around him, is clearly intimidated.  We all try to get some back story but Xotl doesn’t tell us much.  Chibo cheers him up by asking about Kalos Bombax stories.

******

The next morning - we wake up on the ship, and are called to meet the director.  She tells us they’ve been tracking a group of enchanters, the Apostles of the Empty Vessel.  They alter memories for a fee, but also are known to also condition memories to make people compliant, basically reprogramming people who have been kidnapped and selling into slavery.  Often someone kidnapped because the kidnapper has an infatuation or preference for servants.

Bleak (female changeling) is a black market dealer of Khyber dragon shards and will be meeting with them at Le Fou Hippocampus music hall in Thaliost.  Two goals: stop the exchange and get the dragon shards, and apprehend as many apostles alive as possible.  If possible bring in Bleak, though second priority.  

The apostles seem to have some larger goal in mind, though SPAN has not been able to infiltrate to get any useful information.  

******

Rook suggests a plan - what if we lure them out with the promise of a big payment, someone important to be reprogrammed as a pretense to get them to meet them at a place of our choosing.  Ev disagrees - no reason to think they would show up with all the apostles and the dragon shards.

Ev, Chibo, Dane, and Vandare go to Le Fou Hippocampus to scope it out.  Rook, Rinoa, and Xotl go to scout transportation and escape routes and a backup meeting place.  Le Fou is underground, with a chandlery above, closed when we get there (around 4 pm, the night before).  There’s a public square nearby with a fountain for meeting up at, some alleys around.  Can’t tell whether there are other exits other than the front and a set of service stairs in the back - the service stairs lead to an alley with low activity.

*****

As night falls, the place opens up around 8 pm and gets more popular as the night goes on.  There’s a set of stairs down in the front, to the first level - laughter and conversation and loud music.  There is a bottom level below with the first level being a balcony.  Tonight is an athletic can-can dance show.  Rook asks Chibo to forge a document to be an auditor - perhaps some sort of tax assessor, appropriate to look at the features of the building.  Dane “knows someone who knows someone” who might work here and can perhaps get Evertonette onto the stage.

Chibo, Xotl, Vandare enter to watch the show.  We’re on the balcony overlooking the stage, though the stage edge is pretty busy.  Chibo and Xotl make their way to the edge to survey.

Goal - vantage point, locate the exits.  Means of egress are the main doors, a doorway behind the bar that probably leads to the lower bar, a service side door at the edge of the hall, and a small door inside the orchestra pit, and a door to backstage.  There are a few pillars that might obscure prying eyes, but nothing completely obscured.

Ev and Dane go to the front; Dane introduces himself at the Will Call window to find his contact, Astai.  About 10-15 minutes, the guy shows up - he’s the assistant stage manager and can slot Ev in for a trial set tonight, and if she does well perhaps a set tomorrow.  The stage manager, Trelbith Wolfstone, comes out to meet Ev and Dane as a quick audition.  She offers to play an uptempo folk piece from her homeland - and nails it.  He offers her a test set tonight, and if the crowd responds, she’ll definitely get a longer set tomorrow.

Rook and Rinoa approach the doorman, Rook with his forged document, Rinoa as bodyguard.  On the bottom floor, Rook goes toward the employees only door.  About 15 feet in, a short blocky half-orc stops them.  Rook pulls some performance on him and he goes to get the manager.  The manager, Lorth Roseshadow, storms up to him, she is blunt and demanding.  Rook flashes his badge and lays out his intentions to make sure there’s no tax evasion.  She’s furious about the oppression of the Thranish bureaucracy.  She acquiesces to giving him a tour to see the rooms.  Rinoa spots what looks like a faint scratch in the floor in front of one of the women’s wardrobes - looks like it might swing out on a hinge.  She notes it but goes no further.  Rook gets enough info to draw up an accurate map of the interior, and the two leave.

The MC comes on and introduces Evertonette - Chibo goes downstairs to stealthily start up some pockets of applause.  Rook sketches a quick note about the potential hidden door and sleight of hands it to Chibo.  Chibo continues to try to rile up the crowd, but Ev’s performance is a little lackluster, but she did good enough to get a slot the following night.  

Dane chats up Astai and after a while uses his diplomacy skill to “charm” him - and afterward mentions that he’s heard about “exchanges” and such taking place… Astai asks him what he does, Dane says he’s a quasi merchant looking for opportunities.  Astai doesn’t seem to know anything.  

Chibo passes the note in the guise of asking for a signature, and Ev gets offered a 20 minute slot for the following night.  She tries to get into the dressing room but gets escorted into the green room instead.  She uses disguise self to try to match one of the assistants for the Can Can dancers, hoping to remain behind after the dancers leave.  She finds the dresser and sees the marks on the floor.  Crappy rolls, so no luck finding the door.  She sneaks back out through the service exit, then comes back in the main room.

Chibo and Xotl stick around to watch the rest of the shows, Ev, Dane, and Vandare as well but separately.  No one appears to be casing the joint while we are.

As we leave and gather in the street, we come face to face with a man in his prime, dressed in stylish Aundarian fashion but marred by facial burn scars.  He confronts Evertonette.  Flashback time - 14 years ago, outskirts of Thaliost!  The same man, no scars, comes up to offer to buy her a drink after a performance.  He is distressed by the occupation, and states as such; Ev says it takes more than oppressive laws to crush the Aundarian spirit.  He introduces himself as Jean-Luc ir’Desarin.  He suggests their goals are aligned and they may have a future as a pair of Aundairian rebels?

Flash forward to two and a half years ago, late night conspiracy time.  He is suggesting a particular scheme to bring in armed troops against the occupation.  Flash forward once more, after a battle, and the Aundairian troops have succeeded in an ambush to take the Temple District.  Jean Luc suggests Evertonette shall organize the resistance to defend themselves.  Flash forward some more - Ev says they must take the opportunity to escape but Jean Luc resists.  Ev says she has to keep her men and Jean Luc’s men safe and get out.  Jean Luc refuses and turns to enter a burning building to help a refugee family.  End scene.

Current time - Jean Luc is pissed and defiantly challenges Ev to a duel, to the death.  His second, Alfonse ir’Jemaine, introduces himself and suggests Ev needs to find a second, and furnish her location to be found for the duel.  She storms back to the ship, and asks Rook to be her second (he accepts). 

*****

That night, Chibo is testing the book.  He notes in the book, closes it, opens it, and reopens and the notes are gone.  He then starts tracing directly over the sigil - tracing out known runes in the monograph.  After a few of them, he closes the book, begins to get ready for bed. On a whim, he opens the book one last time, and it is different.  Now there are a series of symbols - small text-sized characters, filling the page right to left, top to bottom.  Page after page of this.  There appear to be 13 symbols in the pattern, not related to the monogram but Chibo cannot figure it out yet at this time.

Rook interrupts and asks Chibo’s help to taint the nobleman’s health in some way, similar to the prank on the galleon.  They agree to chat in the morning, though Chibo’s mind is preoccupied and he recalls little of the suggested plan.

After writing notes of the symbols, they appear to be in the same hand as I would write.  Examining the pattern, Chibo cannot identify any discernible pattern at this point.  He keeps investigating until he falls asleep at his desk.

Dane and Rinoa chat over breakfast.  Since Xotl had spilled the secret as soon as he got back to the ship, they are chatting about the duel.  Rinoa offers to train with Ev in her weapons of choice.

Rook is woken by someone knocking on the hull, a messenger with a note for Ev about the show.  He takes the note, gives the messenger a tip, and walks into the ship to find Dane.  They discuss the duel a bit, then Dane heads off to town to try to dig up info on the duelee by going to Le Perfumed Pouf.

Dane chats up the waiter, Mauris, and poses as a Karrnathi wine merchant - and asks who might be interested in his wares.  The waiter mentions Jean Luc ir’Desarin and gives some details.  Dane uses his Diplomat feat to try to get more information:  JLD is a fierce Aundarian loyalist - be careful how you position your wine in that context - and if you were to offend him, probably unable to do business with anyone in his network which is most of the city.  Dane also gets some dirt on JLD’s role in the ill-fated final attempt to claim independence from Thrain a couple of years ago.  He wraps up getting directions to JLD’s manor, where JLD is likely to be found.

Chibo comes down to the galley, exhausted and rumpled, to grab some grub and coffee (which he spikes).  As Rook and Rinoa pass through, he vaguely recalls the chat with Rook the night before.  Rook as an aside asks him to keep the plan quiet.

Rook chats with Ev to gain some insights into JLD.  She says “the demons of the past are still demons, and must be slain.”  She notes that JLD would be of a similar mindset.  Rook convinces her to drill with Rinoa to be on her best form.

On the way out, Rook mentions to Chibo to continue forgetting the plan.  He agrees and wanders back to his room to continue worrying over the book.

Rook and Dane chat on Dane’s return, and share information.  They start to put the pieces together that it may have something to do with the Thaliost massacre - the failed coup to retake the city from the Thranish.  Rook comes up with a plan to convince JLD that Ev’s actions were in the best interest of Thaliost, though he doesn’t let us in on it.  

Rook heads off to make a meeting with Jemaine and Jean Luc, as Rook, not as Ev’s second.  He makes an impassioned plea that Ev is still fighting for the same cause, and that if they fight and kill Ev then all her work will be for naught.  Based on a strong performance, Jemaine’s manner relaxes a bit and they sit to converse.  Jemaine tells of JLD’s identity with and passion for Aundair, and that he is as surprised as any about the duel.  JLD blames himself for the disaster, and Ev bears similar responsibility.  If he were to be able to forgive Ev, he would not be able to forgive himself.  Rook tries to convince him to bear the message that Thaliost would be better off with both of them alive.

Flash to the duel.  Dueling ground on the broken part of the bridge overlooking the Scion’s Sound 500 feet below.  The two duelers pick rapiers from their respective seconds, and Alphonse stands equidistant between the two and drops a handkerchief.  Ev says JLD had a vote in the matter and decided to go along with the plans - and so it is on him.  Then she casts Bane on him.  JLD says she was the one who riled everyone up, that she was the mover.  She throws it back at him - he led his men, they both lost people, it is not just about his loss.  He talks about fighting Thranish occupiers yet here he is, fighting an Aundairian.  

They trade blows, each striking the other several times.  

Finally Evertonette manages to put her rapier through his heart, and catches him and gently lowers him to the bridge where he bleeds out while she hangs her head in sorrow humming the Aundairian anthem.  Rook was furious that anyone needed to die at all.

*****

Le Fou Hippocampus: 100’ by 50’ - bar and horseshoe balcony on the top floor, with door behind the bar and stairs down on either side.  Downstairs, another bar, an orchestra pit, service door, mens and women’s changing rooms - with a secret door in the women’s room.  

Planning occurs.

Later in the afternoon, Chibo calls Rinoa to his room and reveals the obsidian book.  She tries but cannot open it.  When Chibo opens it and displays it, she is able to spot the writing and notes that it is similar to his own handwriting.  He shows some of the techniques he has used to try to decode it - a la Mendeleev, writing runes on cards and shuffling around to look for patterns or ideas.  They discuss the ramifications of the book appearing in his room, locked, on the ship; Rinoa also brings up the troubling notion that perhaps he has somehow been involved in the runes in the first place.

We go to Le Fou Hippocampus and begin to set up.  Rinoa guarding the door to the offices, Dane behind the stage to keep an eye on the back exits.  Vandare is on the balcony overlooking the floor.  Chibo and Xotl roam the floor, Chibo with his Eldritch Sight.  When Rook and Evertonette arrive, Rook takes a position on the balcony near the main entrance while Evertonette prepares to perform.

Evertonette takes the stage, Dane backstage stage left. Evertonette chooses an Aundairian song and nails it.  Partway through the set, Dane notices a quiet corner of the bar, an ivory skinned woman with white/pink hair walking toward the service entrance.  The rest of us are basically oblivious… Walking away from her are six people who moved together and then apart.  Each of the six has a leather satchel/messenger bag.

Dane runs to the stage and shouts “Rose!” while pointing at the groups…

Rinoa parlays with Bleak briefly, and then breaks into combat.
Xotl chops one bag and sawdust flies out… decoy!  Chibo slashes at two more satchels held by apostles near the side door, more sawdust.  Two apostles command Vandare and Evertonette to “Flee!” 

And two apostles start to get away backstage.  Xotl drops one with a ray of frost.  Chibo chases the other out the back of the stage; a thrown dagger clunks off the satchel indicating the target.  He continues to pursue, as does Xotl - the apostle ducks into the women’s dressing room.  Chibo gets close enough to stick another dagger in her, and then Xotl hits her with a sleep spell.  Chibo grabs the bag and slams on the bracelets and gag.

The first apostle Xotl attacked follows, trips over Xotl through the dressing room.  In pursuit, Xotl hits him with a booming blade and he drops.

Meanwhile, two escape through the side door and appear at the upstairs bar, along with the one that had run up the stairs.  Vandare, Evertonette, and then Vandare again finish off the three upstairs.  Bleak escaped.  

Chibo borrows a dragonshard from Xotl on the sly once they get back to the ship - so he can try it out with the obsidian book.




