*****

Evertonette in the Rising Tide, working on documancer reports, mid-day.  There’s a knock on her door.  She opens the door, and finds Loz, bouncing in place and twisting his foot.  He hands her a vellum envelope, with the ir’Geaundesur heraldry.  She is a bit concerned, as this is not how she normally receives letters from family.  As she reads, her eyes go wide briefly then narrow as she concentrates more deeply.  She closes it up then starts gathering her things preparing to leave for Aundair.  Porters show up to help transport, and she directs them.  

Rook notes the porters and checks in with Evertonette.  She has been called away, matters at her family’s estate - she must be present to take care of things.  

Chibo swipes the letter surreptitiously, reads it, and swoops it back: 

“Dearest Sister, I regretfully must request your immediate presence at the estate. As is the burden of our station, events transpire to recall us from our chosen pursuits to tend to the duty of our ancestral lands. I have taken the liberty of using my channels to see to the expedited approval of your leave of absence from SPAN, effective immediately. Conclude your personal affairs and withdraw with utmost haste. I anxiously await your arrival, that I may convey the nature of our circumstances directly and discretely. Forgive my brevity. Signed Elsted ir’Geandesur”

Meanwhile, Dane suggests Chibo may want to do a Detect Thoughts, but Chibo demurs, since he has promised and also because he has not prepared it.  But he suggests that he and Rook had been considering a trip to Aundair to investigate some new sources of star maps.  

Within a couple of days, trying to get permission for an independent trip to Aundair, we get notice that they’ve expedited the arrival of a new legate.  The new legate is an Obviator that SPAN thought would be useful to our work - a man named ____.  While waiting, we fall back into our normal routine.  This evening, before the new Obviator arrives, Rook and Chibo are plotting and carousing, trying the card game with the moons and cards.  Chibo deals the same set three times in a row.  

Inspired by this, we formulate different ways to look at different places and times.  This patch of sky, noted by the card pattern, has not been charted to our knowledge.  It is not charted because it is over Droaam, which is largely uncharted.  We can narrow it down to when in a matter of days, the celestial alignment is likely to take place.  We know some about Droaam, including that the Daughters of Sora Kell rule over it, and they were refused admission to the Treaty of Thronehold.

Rook is fairly confident that we can narrow it down to an area in the NE part of the Watching Wood, and once there we can narrow it down further.  But we would have to fly as the crow flies, breaching the eastern boundary where we may come in contact via Harpies etc, in order to reach the area a day ahead of time.  

Rook addresses the remaining team: Dane, Xotl, and Chibo.  He asks Chibo about how long to get approval, and Chibo points out that the wheels of bureaucracy will be slow and will not likely return the answer that we want.  We will be entering territory where SPAN has no real jurisdiction, would have to be under cover, and would be disavowed.  

We have a day to prepare.  It is around 1 am by the time we finish our conversation.  At dawn the next day, we set about preparations.  Chibo will work on greasing the wheels of bureaucracy, Xotl prepares the ship with supplies, Rook plans the route to enter surreptitiously.  Dane will look into ir’Geandesur goings-on.  

Also at dawn, a man appears with a rucksack, dressed in nautical-themed clothing, and appears to have gills of some sort.  Slung across his back is an unusual looking crossbow, and a tomahawk - human, Artien Pryderi.  Xotl greets him asking if he’s got the beeswax he had ordered, chatting him up excitedly - and Rook runs out to meet him.  Chibo introduces himself, hands inky from beginner documancy, and goes back into his cabin to finish preparing his mission documents.  

Rook joins Artien again, offering him some coffee and describing the ship and mentioning our upcoming mission.  Dane comes out to meet him and tries to get insight on how genuine he is, whether he will be trustworthy to come into an established team.  He seems to be giving accurate statements, a hint of not being entirely enthused about the transfer.

As we prepare, Dane checks in with his gnomish intel source to find out rumors around House Geandesur.  He is looking for fast and good.  He can part with a precious object or owe them a favor.  He offers a favor.  The ears on the ground have noted withdrawal of Geandesur from Thronehold.  Elsted ir’Geandesur has been a strong tie between Aundair and Thronehold, so his sudden leave of absence has been noted.  At the same time through Aundairian official channels a request for expedited release of duty for Evertonette as well.  They aren’t sure what is calling them in - there doesn’t seem to be calamity or peasant uprising, no immediate impending threat - this seems to be coming from Elsted rather than Roland, Ev’s brother managing the estate.

Rook and Chibo approach Director Gauss to describe the importance of this dark mission.  Using a combination of persuasion and spin, we explain Hiram, the Tome (her eyes only) seeming in opposition to the Lords of Dust.  Chibo acknowledges that his prophecy fragment may relate to the challenge with Hiram and that perhaps there is a small chance that Hiram may know this fragment of prophecy as well.

We have our authorization.  We have our supplies.  We have a route that takes us slightly over the Byeshk Mountains; we can skirt them to the south, and skim just south of the Great Crag.  It will be several days’ travel.  

As we get to know him, Artien turns out to be pretty friendly - some guardedness, but more of just someone who knows they’re entering an established organization as an outsider.  He asks about the stories, and particularly about the Profusions.  Xotl gets to know him by snooping in his room, and finds nothing suspicious - which makes him suspicious.

Chibo consults Gose: “My perceptions are limited - but I can tell you are approaching conduit.  You have many questions and I suspect they will be answered.”  And as we approach the border of Droaam, we prepare a cover story that we are civilian explorers scouting to map the area.  As we enter, Chibo helps make sure we are not spotted, and Rook guides us past Grimstone Keep.  We spot a few gargoyles flying in the distance, and a team of hobgoblins on wyverns starts our way, but a medusa on a wyvern seems to pull them back.  

We make our way to the Watching Wood, and cross reference with the Tome.  We see a part of the woods with a large uplift, above the towering trees, 100 feet above the canopy a green hill with what seems at first a castle, upon closer inspection a castle wall, massive arches like a dome with the top cut off.  This seems to be a massive building, surrounding a massive stabacus - some kind of planar observatory, observatory of the celestial spheres.

Consulting with Rook, Chibo determines that the event will not happen tonight, but within the next couple of days.  He leaps over the side of the ship as it hovers over the device, engaging a feather fall token to float gently to the ground.  Meanwhile, Dane summons his protective coatl in his chambers using the brazier, and joins the rest to climb down the ladders that Rook lowers to the ground.

The group is inside a giant orrery with brass rails upon which crystal spheres can move.  There are dragon shards the size of a horse, and many the size of Chibo.  Investigating, CHibo suspects this has not been used in some time, with a layer of dust on everything, though it is suspiciously devoid of plant and animal life.  There are magicks to prevent this structure from decaying.  He finds he can make a fairly good correlation between what is happening on the rails can be attributed to the moons in the sky, and that there is a correspondence between these and the stabacus.  He thinks by manipulating the spheres to the correct position, fueling it with the dragonshards he’s been holding, and try to replicate the ritual with Gose as the conduit to send data to the tome, he could get this working with some modifications to replace the orrery with the stabacus.  We need to identify something to be the orienting factor to replace the blood used to produce consanguinity in the stabacus.

It is noted that this faces upward and is incredibly large, so the builders would have been big… Ahuatemoc (Dane’s Silver Flame coatl) suggests that it points to the Dragon Above, i.e. Siberys.

When the progenitor dragons first created reality, they first made the planes.  Then they created the material world on which we stand.  In a fit of jealousy and rage, Khyber struck down Siberys, and Eberron bound Khyber within its coils, thus creating the Dragons Above, Below, and Between.  Where Khyber was wounded, the blood became demons; where Eberron bled, dragons; and where Siberys, coatls.  

Chibo recalls that dragons are obsessive about observing the sky, particularly the moons and the ring of Siberys.  He recalls too that there are rumored to be places where they may have made those observations.  The observations were to understand and map out the elements of the Draconic Prophecy.  Chibo suspects they need the blood or essence of some creature attuned to the Observacus, e.g. coatls being the blood of Siberys.  Ahuatemoc suspects that the ritual would kill any coatl, but points out that Dane is a conduit to the silver flame itself.  

Suddenly we hear howls from the forest, hundreds coming from all directions and various distances around the Observacus.  The chorus of howls is joined by howling voices; the howls expand ever outward.

Chibo takes stock:
- it will take the entire supply of materials he has stashed away.
- it will take some time to set up the Stabacus in the control system.
- it will take some time for Dane to get himself set up to channel the Silver Flame.
- it will probably be necessary for Rook to help set up the Observacus to replicate a 3-d map of the sky.

Chibo heads toward the control panel portion and casts Leomund’s Tiny Hut as a ritual, with Dane and Rook protected as well, to provide safe haven in the event of something showing up, and coordinates others in their tasks while he and Dane remain in the hut preparing.  After a couple of hours, Artien on watch notes shadows moving around the Obstabatory.  He notes they are primarily bipedal but perhaps furred as well, pretty sure they are shifters, and they are very stealthy.

Dane, inside the hut, casts Spirit Guardians, and steps just outside; the guardians follow.  He is unable to see or hear the intruders.  Artien fires a couple of crossbow bolts but misses.  Chibo continues to work, noting that if any enter the center of the orrery he may be able to do a help action by swinging around the spheres.  He also calls out to Dane to let them know where they are.  

The shifters clamber over the wall; three charge Rook and Artien, while two more approach Chibo and Dane, entering Dane’s zone of Spirit Guardians.  One is killed while the other avoids most of the harm.  Then another five approach from the west.  Dane smashes the injured one killing it, and then misses with his spiritual weapon.  Finally he dashes through the Hut to the other side, taking cover as the remaining five try to surround them.

Artien, with three attacking, takes two out with a tomahawk.  Chibo notes that several of the creatures have entered the orrery area approaching Dane, and spins the spheres, smashing one to smithereens.  Rook misses with a sneak attack, and then Artien gets hit with claws, but fends off two more attacks with the butt end of his massive crossbow.

The ones approaching Dane instead rush to engage Rook.  Dane runs to try to engage, and thorn whips one.  Artien takes out three more, one with a tomahawk and another with a crossbow bolt, then a third.  Finally, Rook spools out his Kraken’s Kiss whip, cracks it once, and commands the last one to surrender.

In Goblin, Rook speaks with the surrendered cat-person, and finds out the woods are full of them, and they were sent to delay us, by their master Zaeurl.  When told to go back and make peace with Zaeurl, the catperson says he has no words to assuage her rage against Dane’s Silver Flame.  Rook says we will not kill it, but it must remain here.  Instead, it bolts, but Rook’s whip tangles its feet, and he is bound and sent up to the aeroines to be guarded.

*****

Some time later, after everyone has a short rest and Chibo casts a new hut in the same location, Artien spots several more small figures and three large shaggy wolves at a full lope.  The creatures are set to breach the perimeter in mere moments.  Dane engages and uses Order’s Demand to subdue one but the other bites him, with potentially severe effects he is able to shake.  Artien launches a grasping arrow that pins it down.  Chibo is able to brutally smash it with another sphere,  but it merely shakes it off.  Rook hits the same one with a frost bolt.  Dane casts Inflict Wounds on one, rotting its flesh from the inside.

Artien nails another with a crossbow bolt from afar.  Chibo smashes another, knocking it prone but doing no damage.  Rook uses Thunder Wave but they shake it off handily.  The three wolves attack Dane but all miss, thankfully.  Four shifters attack Artien, two hitting, while four more approach Rook.  Artien drops a shifter attacking him.  

Chibo, annoyed at the commotion, steps out of the hut and stalks toward the wolves, muttering “How is one supposed to discover the secrets of the universe with all this fucking noise?!”  He hexes the worst off one and Eldritch Blasts it twice, tearing it in half, then looks to the next one and says, “you’re next, bitch.”  Rook claps him on the back and moves to take on the shifters approaching.  He unspools Kraken’s Kiss and destroys one, nicks another, and pops the neck of a third.  Dane smashes at another wolf with his spiritual weapon but misses, and his Toll the Dead is shaken off by the wolf.  Two are still up.

Suddenly, a massive humanoid beast stomps up to the north gate… a wereboar ogre (“werebooger’) wielding a massive maul!  And there we stop for the week.

The werebooger attacks Dane with its maul but Dane deflects it with his shield.  The werewolves similarly are unsuccessful.  Two shifters maul Rook, ripping through his armor and flesh.  The three on the parapet each slash Artien.  Artien takes out two of them, misses the third; while Chibo bisects a second werewolf with an eldritch blast, a negative-space silent beam.  Rook destroys two shifters as his whip lifts them into the air and smashes them into the ground several times.  Dane casts Bless and gives Chibo a chance to throw a crystal wrench he had been holding in his efforts.  The wrench lands in the werebooger’s nose, and he turns his direction toward Chibo.  

The werebooger smashes Chibo mightily to the ground with his maul, then gores him with his tusks.  Artien once again fails to take out the last shifter.  Chibo, grievously wounded, crawls a few feet to ensure Rook’s safety, then uses Thunder Step to blast the ogre with a thunderclap while teleporting to a high vantage point out of reach.  Rook uses Booming Blade on the werebooger as well, and while the thunder damage holds, the rapier damage instantly heals back up.  He disengages and moves away, hoping that the secondary effect of the Booming Blade will kick in when the werebooger moves.

Dane Tolls the Dead on the injured wolf.  The dog shakes it off.  Instead, Dane points his finger and his Spiritual Weapon also misses the dog.  The dog nips Dane slightly.  The shifter does not hit.  The werebooger rushes Rook and smashes him, then gores him - and he is down, hard.

Artien chops the final shifter with his tomahawk and then kicks him down off the wall.  He then takes aim at the werebooger with his crossbow and slams it hard.  Chibo launches two more Eldritch Blasts at the werebooger from his vantage point, then taunts it to distract it from Rook and the machinery.  Dane casts Mass Healing Word, recuperating Rook enough to allow Dane to grant him an attack.  Rook uses his whip to pull it down onto a crystal shard, killing it, as it reverts back to ogre form.  

The final wolf attacks Dane and knocks him prone, then realizes he is alone and outnumbered.  It flees back to the treeline, while Dane smashes at its legs as it runs off.  Artien, then Chibo, then Rook, attack it as it flees, each making it worse off.  Dane finishes it off with a guiding bolt of radiant energy.

Chibo clambers down and uses Mending to try to repair the broken machinery, but this is a setback.  Rook realizes he can use the Rising Tide elementals to help power the machinery as well.  He boards the ship, and Xotl excitedly informs him that “they’re sending an ogre were boar!”  Chibo takes a short rest while Rook calibrates the mechanism.  Artien notes that Dane is acting a little more snappy than usual.  

Chibo wracks his brain about lycanthropy and understands that remove curse and wolfsbane could be of assistance.  He tells the non-Dane crewmates via Awakened Mind, and describes that he can fix this with significant time, but that we need Dane sane and in control.  Tonight is optimal but it will be a narrower window the following night.  Dane becomes antagonistic, and Rook and Artien surround Dane, with Rook pressing the silver talisman against Dane’s chest and calling for the Silver Flame - while Chibo steps into shadows.  

Dane calls on the Silver Flame and is awash in a sense of disgust and guilt as he transforms into a lupine form.  He has a deep clarity that he can go with this, but that it is a violation of all he stands for.  He casts Hold Person on himself, and because he reached for it with good intent, he can draw on the power.  He feels a sense of absolute calm with the disconnection from his body, while his heart beat normalizes and he can separate his thoughts from his visceral drives.

Dane messages back to Chibo to fetch his brazier ASAP!  Chibo notes this to the others, letting him know he could cure this if necessary but it will take hours, but maybe the brazier will be able to help instantly.  Rook gusts him up toward the ship, Chibo searches around Dane’s quarters to find it, and Feather Falls back to the ground.  Meanwhile, Artien concocts a tincture of wolfsbane and force feeds it to the restrained Dane.  As Dane’s spell ends, the wolfsbane kicks in to help Dane keep his composure.  Dane calls for Ahuatemoc from the brazier as Chibo helps unpack it.  Unfortunately, seeing the brazier, hated and despised, Dane begins to lose control.  He maintains his composure due to the wolfsbane and signals to Rook that he can perform the ritual.  The form of Ahuatemoc rises from the flame and it immediately regards Dane with concern.  It wraps itself around Dane and says, “Child of the Flame, accept my aid!”  Dane feels its warmth encompass him and pushes away the rage until it vanishes from his mind.  He can see that his body has rejected the flesh and fur of his transformation, and he stands over the brazier, in prayer, and collapses from exhaustion.

We return to our work, bringing the Aeroines down from the ship to provide manual labor while Artien stands watch.  Unfortunately, he does not notice the silverback female werewolf clamber over the wall as she howls ferociously and hurls a javelin from the darkness toward Dane’s chest.  And we note five werewolves clambering over the walls, along with more panther-shifters off in the forest.  

Dane is attacked by the female, and bitten once again.  Chibo hexes the nearest werewolf and blasts it with two Eldritch Blasts, and retreats to stand beside Rook.  Dane slams his silver symbol against the female and uses it as a shillelagh - she is injured but resists the damage.  Artien launches bolts from the wall at the female, and the way she absorbs the damage it reminds Artien of a barbarian rage.  

A horde of panther-shifters chanting Zaeurl! Zaeurl! As the hit the wall and begin to scale it.  The werewolves are up, but we will pick up from here next week.

Xotl bursts through the gate, out of breath, and tells us “Guys! They are just stalling us, until their leader gets here!”  He looks around and notes that the leader is already here.  Two of the werewolves approach Dane to attack, and miss.  Two others approach Chibo and Rook - Rook is clawed but Chibo ducks behind some of the wreckage.  Xotl moves, and casts Fireball obliterating a group of shifters on the wall (and taking out part of the wall), then hides behind a nearby wall.  Rook draws and thirds the werewolf near him, then shouts helpful advice to Dane against Zaeurl.

Zaeurl attacks Dane but thankfully misses on claws and bite.  Chibo steps around his werewolf, and ThunderSteps up to his old sniper position, harming the wolf in his wake.

Dane, surrounded by werewolves, casts Spirit Guardians to protect him.  Artien, meanwhile, goes over the wall surrounded by shifters and we hear screams - of shifters, not Artien.  A final group of shifters crests the wall and goes in search of Xotl but he is successfully hidden.

Werewolves attack Dane, suffering from the Spirit Guardians; but then gets bitten, clawed, and bitten again.  Fortunately, he saves, and the spirit guardians remain up.  Two more attack Rook, with one claw and one bite.  He looks sorely wounded by the bite.  

Xotl, seeing Dane gravely wounded, flees through the shifters toward Dane and Zaeurl, and casts Mirror Image to confound his enemies.  Rook ThunderWaves the two werewolves near him, harming them and pushing them back.

Zaeurl, seeing a horde of goblins approaching, steps away from Dane toward the goblins and starts attacking.  Dane manages a backhand with his Warhammer to nick her slightly.  Zaeurl takes out two duplicates of Xotl but no damage to him.  Chibo, from his vantage point, obliterates the werewolf that had been threatening him and is now threatening Rook, and moves his Hex over to the final one menacing Rook.

Dane attacks Zaeurl with his Spirit Guardians and a hammer, while blessing himself, Rook, and Xotl.  The wolves attack Dane and claw him and he falls.  The shifters attack Rook, doing minor harm, and the werewolf shifts his attention to Chibo on the wall.  Rook disengages and hits the shifters with a Gust of Wind, blasting them against the wall.  He then floats away to safety.

Xotl casts a fireball obliterating the remaining shifters and one werewolf, and his Wild Magic surge grants him the resistance to certain damage.  And Zaeurl focuses her rage on him but Xotl dodges with a Shield.

Chibo blasts the werewolf climbing rapidly toward him, but it continues approaching and is now within melee though cannot yet attack.  Dane has a critical failure on his death save… Rook chugs a health potion and uses the Help action to assist Xotl, who disengages from battle and shoves a Healing potion down Dane’s throat.  Dane regains consciousness, but Zaeurl looms over his prone body and sets to attack.  Suddenly, a hideous crone appears behind Zaeurl, and ten black iron fingernails protrude from Zaeurl’s chest.  She whispers in elvish to the dying Zaeurl, “I warned you not to interfere…”

From the sniper point, Chibo Thunder Steps away, obliterating the werewolf and blasting it over the wall, appearing on ground level near the crone.  He prepares his hex but does not yet assign its target, until he knows what is happening with the crone.  Xotl casts Invisibility on himself and Dane.  

Rook recognizes the crone as a character from classic Droaam plays as Sora Kell, a tall, indigo skinned, horned hag.  He is fairly certain this is NOT her, but a night hag, the same sort of creature.  He puts away Kraken’s Kiss, with a deep bow, and speaks in elvish, “Your most esteemed maliciousness, we are honored by your presence.”

The hag withdraws her spidery elongated fingers from Zaeurl’s ribcage and fades away.  

Shenanigans ensue, as the corpse of Zaeurl rises from the ground and attacks Chibo, who blasts it while the laughter from invisible Dane rings around the room.  

Artien and Dane realize that Rook’s impending lycanthropy will not trigger until the following eve, so Dane can prepare Remove Curse in the morning.

Chibo, performing a Read the Kill on Zaeurl’s blasted corpse, sees a fleeting series of images connecting backwards to a piece of vellum parchment, tied in a green ribbon, placed in the hand of a grey-skinned woman with long yellow fingernails - and as it pans up, he sees snakes around her head until the vision moves up and before I can make out a face, the vision blurs her face.  The woman walks out with the vellum, and we follow her through an outpost of knolls and ogres, kobolds, trolls, harpies… then this woman with the scroll goes into a stable, mounts a wyvern, takes to the sky, and lands in the Watching Wood.  We see her approaching Zaeurl, hand the parchment, and Zaeurl averts her gaze.  She reads the missive and regarding it with disgust, tears it into bits.  Chibo is reminded of the medusa on the wyvern that pulled back the hobgoblin squad.  It seems as if the Daughters of Sora Kell want us to succeed.  Perhaps to gain our information, perhaps they want to avoid an incident with SPAN, perhaps because they want us to fulfill some portion of the Draconic Prophecy.

Chibo directs people around the Obstabatory  to set up the ritual.  Rook begins the motion of the orrery, and Dane begins to draw upon the Silver Flame.  Chibo, cross legged and eyes inky black as his mind is in Gose.  Gose, suspended between her home and this world, channels energy into the Tome and a golden bright light shines from its seemingly infinite pages.  The Tome opens of its own accord and Chibo sees written in his own hand, in glowing gold lettering, “Deviant”.  Chibo responds, “what is it you ask of me?” And the page turns to reveal his own words back at him.  The page turns and it says “I seek understanding.”  
Chibo asks, “what understanding do you seek? How can we be of assistance?”  The reply is, “I need to determine if you are a threat.”  
“Are we not one?  I am part of you and you are part of me?”  “Decidedly not - you are a breach.”  
“I do not wish to be a threat, I do not believe I am a threat.  I only wish to explore these mysteries that have been revealed to me.”  “In that case you would be an asset.  There must be a test.  Is your initial embezzlement replicable?”  “I do not believe so.  I have guided others in their own access to magic, but cannot replicate theirs and they cannot replicate mine.”  

“Will fulfilling the goals of this prophecy fragment further our goals and yours, or those of anathema?”  “Your goals are irrelevant; fulfillment will further the goals of Anathema.”  
“Does the fractured jewel represent the nations of the Treaty of Thronehold?” (It seems like a reasonable interpretation).
Old spider = Daughters of Sora Kell?  Inclusive.  (But not bounded - see below). Spider’s objectives are irrelevant, but its actions are relevant.  
“Do The Profusions act in a way that favors Anathema?”  “The marked in question are extremely relevant.”
“Is Xotl’s crystal a component of Anathema?” “It is a small component” 
“Can we use the crystal to disrupt the goals of Anathema?” “The crystal that accompanies you is a self-defeating fragment.”
It seems as if the Draconic Prophecy is weighted toward having Dragonmarked.  
Does the Helix Born refer to the Silver Flame?  Negative.
“Protect the cloud of silver from the mountain’s heart.” Rising Tide = cloud of silver; Fallen Star = mountain’s heart.  Going down the list of Profusions we ask which could fulfill the role of the Helix-born.  Mark of Passage satisfies condition.  This indicates Dagmar d’Orien.  
Setting parameters as above, we get an “affirmative” on Maeladonna d'Phiarlan, with the Mark of Shadow.   
With the above parameters, Rook asks (passed along by Chibo) whether the actions of House Lyrandar are likely to cause this fragment of the Formula to come to pass, putting into place other circumstances that further the goals of Anathema. “Bounded query: affirmative.”

The connection breaks, and Gose pops.  Chibo, in a surge of backwash energy, gains access to new powers (I.e., 7th level)

