Late 998 - two years after signing of treaty of Thronehold

In the Silver Spigot: 
Evertonette (Brian) - med height humanoid, med brown hair - arcaneer, utilitarian dress, nice lute
Vandare (Tom) - competitive, snobby, goth attitude 
Rook (Eby) - missed the war - half-elf, skinny
Dane (Dan) - 

Rook and Vandare do a little dance-off while Evertonette fills in for the lute player when his string breaks.  Chibo makes a few coin betting on the outcome and buys an app for the table.

Toby the goblin throwing shade at Xotl - Evertonette calms him down and sends him on his way.

——

Dropping in media res: pinned down on a bluff by a band of knolls, 25 or so, at the base of a hill, 500 feet from us; Chibo and Xotl fortified behind a large rock.  Others are farther back.  There is a river with some rowboats behind us a bit.

Folio with intelligence docs with Evertonette.  

Rook checks with Chibo re: life or death situation (so he can attack).  Chibo says yes indeed!

The group starts a fire between Chibo and Xotl and the remainder of the group.  Ev grants Chibo a bardic inspiration but he doesn’t need it as he vaults over the flame, followed by Xotl.  As they crest the hill, the whole group charges down toward the boat and the four knolls protecting it.  

Dane takes some damage, but most of the crew gets through fine.  Xotl stands over a downed knoll and is about to stab him.  Rook cautions him in Goblin, then runs down to the docks to get the boat ready.  With everyone getting on him, Xotl decides sheepishly to not stab the unconscious critter.  We both get in a little kick surreptitiously on the way by.  

We all get to the boat, and as we row away the scene dissolves away revealing the Shadow Theater.  Quartermistress Jhazaal Kohl’daya, Intervention Branch, greets us and tells us we did a good job.  Other people of Span: 
Director Hermianna Gauss: human, 30s, petite blond with manicured nails.
Head of Research Branch Water
Master Logistician Akbar Scott; old man - 70s, bald with liver spots and wattles - missing legs, and in a wheelchair
Communications Officer Dindlebert Zindledack: male gnome, a dragon mark, a little overweight, black hair, blue eyes, bulbous nose.
Secretary of Internal Oversight Doctor Lawrence Greaves, Esquire: office full of leather-bound tomes - tweed suit, late 40s and glasses, long pinched nose.  
Chief of Security Bronson Holderheck

We head to the Silver Spigot.  It is at about 30% capacity.  Rook checks out a billboard for any theater shows coming to town, but the entertainment options are relatively limited - most are private audiences and upscale events.  We banter a bit, people scold Xotl a little.  It gets a little much and he slinks away.

——

We have a meeting with Director Gauss in her office.  She congrats us on graduating. She gives us our first mission: a peacekeeping mission in the Lhazaar Reaches.  Ardborg, creatures are terrorizing the village; they’ve only showed up a month or so ago.  It may be a bioweapon developed in the area by House Vadalis, though the house denies it.  They create service animals though also custom monsters.  These creatures are Dragongulls, non-violent unless provoked, though they steal fish from fishermen and middens.  Their poop is acidic, apparently, though - can cause grievous injury - and if population continues to grow, they may harm passing ships and such.  Cartographer has the information about passage.

Aardborg is not an important shipping port or center of commerce - mostly a fishing village.  They’ve made the request for external assistance - we are not undercover.  The request was sent through multiple channels, but we should speak with Elder Arlen.  We can travel to Rockpoint, the main port.  Rook plans the route.  Xotl goes to Akbar and requests supplies.  Akbar tells him he’s got the travel expenses covered and sent over to the cartographer… he clearly doesn’t trust Xotl.  He groans and opens a lockbox and pulls out a purse - hands it over and tells Xotl he’ll send more to the next bank (Rockpoint) - Xotl is excited to be holding more than he’s ever held before.  Akbar warns him one last time.

Evertonette goes to see Dindlebert about communications and resources on the island.  SPAN office in Rockpoint and can communicate through agents of house Civis, or letter carriers with house Orien to be communicated to House Civis.  Rook plans the trip.  

I check in with Dr. Greaves, mention the “incident” and he emphasizes that one of my duties is to help keep him out of trouble - we are trying to remain as non-combatants and remain as impartial as we can.  Mr. Scott has expressed repeated concerns and I need to keep a close eye on Xotl’s ledgers.

Vandare checks in with Bronson Holderheck to seek advice from a seasoned veteran.  Obviator advice: make sure that there’s no such thing as an obstacle.  More important to act than to just get stuck in uncertainty.  

Xotl gets all the provisions - salted catfish, pickles, oatmeal, and 3 gallons of milk.  Vandare is disappointed with the “good wine” but Chibo makes some picklebacks and share with Xotl.

***

Sailing north from Thronehold to Stormhome - three days.  At Stormhome we meet with Jarlsberg (contact of Rook).  Rook’s pa and bro are in town - if otherwise occupied, best to keep a low profile.  He books us on an elemental galleon, the Dutiful Dastard, led by Captain Dare, to Rockpoint.  The rest of us are hanging out in Stormhold - as if on a tropical island, despite expectations of Arctic weather.  As we head out, the ship is carrying cargo of wine, durable grains and ag products, etc.  We each have our own small cabin.  Dane and Chibo join a dice game in the hold and get some history on the ship.  The rumors of the sea, ghost stories, pirate tales, etc.  Chibo prompts for stories of odd sea happenings, and hears of a nation beneath the waves, a shark-like people that pray to a goddess who seek the blood of surface dwelling folk.  

Xotl heads to the hold to check out what’s down there.  He opens up some crates, illicitly, and drinks wine and eats pickles he finds down there until he is sick.  Ducking between some crates, he overhears a little grumbling from the crew - dissatisfied employees - sounds like the captain has pulled back on the ration of rum for the crew, because he wants to make a good impression on Rook.  Offended that the captain thinks they’d embarrass him in front of Rook.  Typical underling talk so shouldn’t worry about it at all.

Dane senses that the crew is trying to humor us and make a good impression, as if they’ve been hand picked to keep us happy.  Xotl suggests pranks - rotten eggs in the food maybe to make him seasick in front of the crew.  

Ev talks to Reya (pilot, dragon mark of storm) about the crew being disgruntled - a few officers displeased at having quarters commandeered to accommodate so many passengers.  Having someone of Rook’s (“Tertius”) stature on board puts people on edge.  Ev finds out how the captain got his role.  The pilot has felt a bit on edge as well.  Something about Rook is rubbing her the wrong way about him, and doesn’t like how chummy he is with the captain - she finds it offputting

Our prank is caught by Rook, we have a good laugh, and while that’s happening I notice a light off in the distance that appears to be magical ghostly light coming toward us.  Xotl notices it seems like a oblong object below the water, shining up, presently closing on us.  The captain tells Reya to step on it.  Rook goes to assist her, but she bristles, and Rook assures her he’s not taking over - she gets advantage.  The ship starts to surge.  But the thing behind starts to accelerate - and a horizontal bar of light a handspan wide with the end flashing.  

Ev notes the flashing light is an old Aundarian military code.  Chibo hands her a notebook to write it.  She nails the code (nat 20) and Chibo deciphers a series of response flashes for a “stand down” message (another nat 20 courtesy of advantage).  After a few moments it flashes back what Chibo is pretty sure is a “acknowledged” sign.  

Back on deck, we regroup - Ev would have recognized anything from the past 30 years - this was much older.  Ev knows it would not be inappropriate for a military ship to verify the identity of a potential target - I.e. if unmarked merchant vessel this a countersign might be protocol.

The rest of the trip is uneventful - the tension of an unknown threat has stamped out the disgruntlement of the crew (and the prank helped).  Xotl and Chibo patch stuff up as best as we can the crates in the hold.  Rockpoint has a bunch of wooden piers with ships being loaded and unloaded.  As we’re coming down the gangplank, Rook stealthily casts gust of wind and knocks Chibo into the water; he flounders and fakes not being able to swim, but then swims back to shore and bows to Rook with a “well played, sir.”

Rook puts in a good word for the pilot to the Captain as we disembark.  There is a ship leaving the next morning for Aardborg - a barnacled sloop with a hold full of fish.

Late the next day, we pull up to a dock with a gangplank.  Nestled in the rocky hills, ramshackle village of 30ish houses, and an island off the point is a dilapidated lighthouse, a small bay with fishing boats pulled up on the sand, and larger fishing boats anchored offshore.  The villagers pay attention but don’t approach.  

Ev asks a fisherman about Elder Arlen.  He finishes his work and waves us on.  He leads us to Arlen, who describes the problem.  The dragon gulls swoop into town and attack our boats and make a mess of our trash piles.  This has happened for a few months - a menace, injured a few people; we realize that some of the dilapidation of the village is actually from the droppings.  Rook asks if anything else odd happen around the same time?  No, it seems as if there are more of them every day - and not always at the village, sometimes out to sea.  They seem to go away before nightfall and arrive shortly before sunrise.  Last seen yesterday.  

The abandoned lighthouse hasn’t been occupied for over a decade - not safe.  We go to investigate with the locals, finding a bar with some card games.  Dane notices one person who seems a little more aggressive in keeping focus on the game, Gion.  He walks over to the person and offers to buy him a drink - Gion deals Dane and Chibo in.  Dane tries to warm up the table a little.  The card players can’t wait to get rid of the dragon gulls.  Fishers stay within 5 miles from shore.  They tell us the lighthouse, a bunch of ships got thrown by unexpected waves onto hidden rocks, and was too difficult to man it because of this.  No one seems to have been out there the past few months.  

Dane corners Gion to get himself invited onto his boat the next morning.  Gion’s friend mentioned he was complaining that he’s gotten attacked to the south.  Chibo and Dane go on the boat with Gion the next morning.  

***

Chibo presents his occultant report to date.  Dane picks up some bran bread and rotgut for the boat trip the next morning.

Vandare, Evertonette, and Xotl team up to look for where the dragon gulls are coming from by doing a dawn patrol.  Ev goes to look for spyglasses by asking Elder Arlen.  

Xotl also tries to find a spyglass by running up to people and shaking them while asking if they have one.  Surprisingly no one has one, though he spots one larger, nicer house that might have one.  He peers in through the window, sees a fish meal, gets the fish scraps from the garbage and forgets about his quest.  Mission accomplished! -1 Xotl

Back to Ev: Arlen’s son suggests Savid, who lives in the largest house in town - was a fairly successful captain and may still have a spyglass.  She approaches the house, finds Xotl eating fish.  She goes to the front and knocks.  A woman answers the door, wife Sansari; invites Ev in, introduces to Savid.  Politely Ev describes the request, Savid goes to look for it - finds a worn but decent quality spyglass. +1 Ev.

Rook finds a younger fisherman who’s been to the lighthouse, to get a sense of the route.  Sounds legit hazardous passage.  Half mile off shore, about 5 miles from town.  Sounds like not so much a route, but just requires skill.  

We all get up before dawn and start the day.  Dane and I run to the dock a little early, and Gion is already trying to push off.  Dane shows the bread and rotgut, and Gion becomes more open to us joining.  Dane plies his Diplomatic feat, and charms him and wins him over.  We row out and catch a current heading an hour south.  Chibo fails to help.  Gion says no problem, just let him do it.  

Gion asks Dane about Thrane, and Dane tells a little of his stories and travels; Gion tells how most people in town never venture more than 20 miles.  Dane butters him up with flattery about skill and knowledge, and asks about the gulls.  Gion says they tend to show up just before dawn, unpredictable of where or when.  Dane mentions Gion’s discomfort.  He says it’s just nervous about our safety, but still seems to be avoiding talking about something… Chibo passes around the rotgut, Dane fails to persuade, but Gion mentions “magic fish” - these fishwives tales about people who catch magic fish.  He thought he’d caught one - if you catch one, it tells you to do something, you do it, and it grants wealth or luck or some such. Four months back, he thought he’d caught one - it had a letter in its mouth, waterproof parchment.  The letter said there’d be gold if he buried a specific list of supplies in a cove near here.  He brought things to the cove, he buried the stuff, and found a pouch under a rock.  He reluctantly takes us there. 

The other four meanwhile, at dawn take positions.  Ev with the spyglass notices something offshore - something like a small isolated patch of light on the surface of the water, and dragon gulls flocking above the light, and more streaming from the east, congregating around the green illumination.  Just before the sun comes up, the patch disappears, and the gulls spread out and start flying toward Aardborg.  Ev sees maybe 300 yards off the edge of the dock to the south, an orange patch of luminescence. 

Ev calls the rest of the group together with an Eldritch blast - the birds will be to town in half an hour.  Town is starting to wake up and get to business. Fishmongers set up inside to avoid the gulls.  Ev hands the spyglass to Vandare, while she goes to alert Elder Arlen.  Rook tries to call the people on ships to come back to shore using a foghorn.  Xotl sends rays of frost into the air randomly and screaming “Gulls are coming” - to notify the villagers.  Elder Arlen says “please keep my people safe” while eyeing the rays of frost from Xotl…

Vandare counts two dozen gulls clearly - large gulls, with a claw on each wingtip.  He tries to find the orange light, but it has since vanished. 

Back to the cove.  Gion walks Chibo and Dane up the cove - 20 feet of sand above the tideline, Gion points to the rock where he stashed the stuff.  Chibo investigates while Dane talks to Gion about the supplies - glassware, chemicals, parchment, and ink etc.  50 gp in the sack - but he doesn’t know what to do with it.  The cove may have been a smuggler’s drop off point.  The letter said to destroy it.  My investigation doesn’t reveal anything happening here for a couple of months, and nothing up the cliffs.  It seems clear that the timeline accords with the arrival of the gulls, and the equipment lines up with rumors of experimentation by House Vandalis.  We head back to town.

Back in town - Ev looks for patterns in scavenging habits.  The gulls seem to just randomly look for trash piles and stuff to scavenge.  She proposes finding a small group, cast sleep on them, to study or observe.  They find a group of 3, two fall asleep gently, the third looks around and starts to fly up.  It doesn’t seem spooked, just irritated that people are around.  They grab the two and try to find lobster cages to put them in.  They’re like 10 pounds, blackish orange beak, red legs with sharp talons, and scaly leathery red knuckle with long claw the size of a finger.  +2 for attempt.

As they wake up they start squawking - Ev re-sleeps them and throws a cloth over them, and buys some spare fish to feed them when they wake up to keep them calm.  Unfortunately Rook startles one and it poops its way out of the cage.  As the bird moves past Ev and Vandare they get opportunity attacks.  Ev pierces it with her rapier as the other tries to escape.  Vandare hits the other as it tries to escape, but doesn’t kill it.  It poops on him!  Xotl whiffs it against the bird, and knocks over the family’s ancestral urn.  -1

Finally Ev pierces it through.  

Xotl pushes the pottery back together and puts the pile back on the shelf.  Rook tries to smooth it over with the family by offering assistance from SPAN and try to keep them from throwing us out. +1

The group commandeers a storage shed near the dock to put the dead gulls and waits out the rest of the visitation.  Xotl tries a little taste - it tastes a lot like lizard bird.  

Finally Dane and Chibo get back.  We all share the info.  The lights did not seem to have the same mage light luminescence from the ship.  Chibo checks Arcana against the bird corpses - finds it behaves as an acid but only on organic matter - a poison instead.  As the dissection proceeds, he zeroes in on a gland that produces this poison - the size of a softball, 3 pounds out of 10 pounds - an organ creating this poisonous substance.  Dane recalls a notorious military unit from Thrane that ride on wyverns - ferocity, intelligence, tail with stinger with potent flesh eating poison.  

We consider that perhaps we can find the lab, maybe at the lighthouse.  We find a small skiff that can carry us all, and head out toward the lighthouse at high tide.  As we get to within about a half a mile, we see a light turn on in the top of the lighthouse that bathes the boat in orange light.  Six bird figures rise up from the island and approach from a high vector - the light changes from orange to yellow and the birds begin to dive.  The battle begins!

Vandare clips one with an arrow but it survives and attacks.  Chibo gets hit by another and Ev gets hit as well.  Dane casts Sacred Flame at the injured one.  Xotl hurls a ray of frost but misses.  Rook drops one with his crossbow and tries to use evasive action for the ship.  Ev drops one with an eldritch blast, while Chibo drops one with his crossbow and Vandare clips a third and gets pooped on.  Xotl hits one with cold, and it shatters on the deck of the boat.  Finally Dane takes out the last one with Sacred Flame.  

The light turns orange while Rook’s attention is focused on the shore while another ten birds rise up from shore.  

——

Xotl tries to attack the gulls, but his wild magic turns him into a matryoshka doll.

Chibo gets healed by Dane; Rook takes the helm to get us to shore quickly before the ten gulls kill us all.  Chibo spots for reefs (to give Rook advantage) and sends an unseen servant to bail the boat and clean up any poo spots.  Vandare picks one out of the sky at range, and Dane shoots a Sacred Flame to wound it.  Vandare picks the singed one out of the sky.  Ev destroys one with an Eldritch blast.

Dane Sacred Flames another to singe it.  Vandare misses one.  Chibo nails the singed one with a crossbow bolt and calls Dane up to the fore to watch for rocks.  Ev blasts another.  Five left! One hits the deck with poo, but they appear to not be aiming at us unless they get injured.

Vandare picks another out of the sky.  Chibo wings one and it starts to dive toward him.  Ev blasts it out of the sky.  The remaining gulls now attack us.  Vandare takes a hit and collapses to the desk.  Rook drives us much closer to the safety of the beach.  Chibo takes out one more with a crossbow bolt, and Ev immolates one more.  The last one bombs Ev.  Dane takes out the very last one.  

We are now safely on dry land.  As Dane cures Vandare, Chibo’s bag shakes and he finds several wooden dolls shaped like vials.  He hands one to Evertonette who opens it, drinks it, and is healed.

The island is a 5 min walk across tops, a 50’ tall lighthouse, a 2 story house, and a smaller single-story outbuilding.  Vandare notes a figure disappear ducking behind the railing of the lighthouse.  He notes a thin rope leading from the top of the lighthouse to a rock outcropping 60’ from shore.  Rook swims out to the rope and begins climbing up it to the railing.  Vandare enters the lighthouse while the rest maintain watch outside.  The stairs inside lead up to a trapdoor that appears to have been used frequently, though seems to be barred from the other side.  

Vandare busts through the door with brute strength.  On the other side is a surprised man in oilskin jacket and slacks and a turtleneck.  He reaches for a whistle and blows it, which makes a high pitch shriek that reverberates across the island and starts to move toward the rope.  Dane starts to dash up the stairs; Ev prepares an eldritch blast, while Chibo prepares a crossbow bolt.  Vandare grapples the man to keep him from escaping.

The man struggles for a moment; those of us around the tower spot a wyvern-sized dragon gull come from around the tower and approaches the top of the tower, trying to grab the man to escape him.  The dragon gull grabs the man and flies away; Vandare gets in an opportunity attack against the man but misses.  The man drops from the dragon gull and into the water.  Ev misses with a blast but Chibo tags the gull.  Evertonette hits it again as it moves in toward Vandare.  Chibo nails it once again, across the bridge of its beak.  

Vandare distracts the giant gull.  Rook ziplines down to the water to chase the man.  Dane pops out, sacred flames the gull to lightly singe its wing, and dives back in to the tower.  Ev sears it again with Eldritch Blast, and Chibo nails it in the eye with the crossbow.  The bird dives toward Chibo who ducks into the tower.  Vandare, from the top of the tower, pings it with an arrow.  

Rook notices, far away, the guy he’s pursuing, who has one hand on the dorsal fin of a shark, and a waterproof bag in his hand.  Also, another shark heading his way rapidly and fails to bite.

Back to the wyvern - drops down and strikes with talons crushing Evertonette nearly to death (0 hp), and it turns to Dane.  Evertonette leaps back and (rolls a 20 death save) pulls a rapier and pokes it deep into the creature’s gizzard and it collapses into a heap.

Rook flees the shark but it gets in a nibble.  He flops on the beach relieved.  He relates that House Vidalis is likely the only people who could control a shark like that.  While Ev and Rook take a short rest, others check out the other structures.  We note at the top of the lighthouse a set of colored lenses, a much larger version of a magic item known as a drift globe.  Using the colors we can pull some existing birds away from Aardborg, using a green light to keep them circling around a spot in the ocean.  Chibo tries a blue lens; the birds move away from the blue light.  Red attracts them to the lighthouse.  Chibo puts in the blue again.  

Rook and Vandare investigate the other buildings.  The two story building seems to have been a residence.   The main room seems to be bisected by a metal mesh?  And glass instruments in the kitchen.  Looks like someone is using needles to inject a substance into gull eggs - Vidalis seals on the glass vials.  Dining room seems to have been a workspace; a dissected dragon gull on the table.  A shelf contains some Syberis dragon shards, 18 of them, that can enhance dragon mark abilities.  That seems to indicate a grander plot.  Vandare and Rook decide to keep them out of the hands of Xotl.  Rook tucks them into his bag but intends to tell the rest of the group.

The living room has a few gull chicks, a notebook about the training of gulls, and some colored lenses.  Green = flock to that location; yellow = strafe a target; orange = move toward emitter; blue means to move away from source of light.  Upstairs are three rooms - master bedroom is rigged with incubators and heating stones; most regular sized eggs but some the size of melons.  In another room, another journal, though much of the notes do not seem to be present - a lot missing.  

From the journal, Ev (documancer) finds that the man who got away, Dr. Coelom (See-lom) is an excommunicate from house Vidalis who has an aggressive stance of what Vidalis could contribute toward major source of biological weapons, though Vidalis finds this view abhorrent.  

Rook brings up the dragonshards; Chibo hangs onto one, makes a note of the others, and lets Rook hang on to the rest.  

We hold onto a couple of the eggs as evidence and then call the remaining birds toward us and destroy them to prevent further damage or breeding.  We have saved the town!  We make our way back to Rockpoint, submit reports to SPAN and receive in return our next mission.  We are to urgently locate an operative in ___ and retrieve highly sensitive information.  


