From Episode 15: 

Xotl, meanwhile, is having nightmares about the night hag from the Obstabatory.  She has a gem and chain around her neck on top of her dress.  Xotl finds himself hanging upside down from a tree, and the hag incises around his wrists and ankles, then connects the incisions and rips the skin off of him.  He wakes in horror, feeling like his flesh is damp with his blood, but it is just the damp rags.  He casts off the rags, and realizes his flesh has been restored.  

Meanwhile, back to Chibo.  He opens the box, and inside is a slip of paper with the phrase, “your cook is a spy.”  He drops the Hut and messages this to Rook and Dane and obliterates the note.

Questions (once Xotl returns to us):
- did the night hag heal Xotl, if so why?  She also helped with the Obstabatory episode.
- if the night hag healed Xotl, did she disguise herself as a Rakshasa (why? Maybe to point us in a direction)? Or is she working with someone else?
- assuming the night hag, or a partner, had Xotl plant the box, why are they wanting us to know about Rosa?
    - one option: sow discord.  But that seems to be going to a lot of trouble.
    - another option: it is true.  But then who is Rosa working for, and why is the night hag opposed/how does this benefit her?

*****

Chibo stops Xotl from speaking too much about his cure.  The crew adjourns to a nearby bar that Rook knows of where they can drink and chat in private.  We ask Xotl about his cure.  Chibo can observe the scars around Xotl’s wrists/ankles.  

True facts about Xotl:
- It seems true that the night hag cured Xotl.  It definitely seems to be a night hag rather than a Rakshasa.
- It seems most reasonable that the Rakshasa nurse was the hag in disguise.

Xotl recalls that the box seemed odd, both thumping and not thumping - he inspects it for dirt.  He notes some scratches as if something had been inside scratching, and potentially come out.  Xotl checks his logbook of Holding.

What do we do with the box? (Communicate with Night Hag)
What do we do about Rosa? 
Step 1: get to the ship to find a critter.
Step 2: do something with the box
Step 3: investigate to figure out whether and for whom Rosa might be a spy.

Back at the ship: Chibo does some passive investigations, and notes some fresh scratches on the burnt wood, looking like they would lead toward the bunks.  Rook notes that it appears to be something almost shuffling gait dragging dagger points across the deck toward the bunks.  Chibo notes some very fresh scratches as of something worming its way under Dane’s door, 1/2 to 3/4 inches.

Chibo instantiates Gose inside Dane’s room, and merges with her mind.  He notes the markings toward a corner of the room where there is a fairly heavy woven blanket/tapestry draped over a box about 2.5’ tall x 1.5’ wide, presumably the box where Dane’s Brazier is.  There appears to be a small hole in the box, roughly augured out, with some sawdust around it.  Gose can see a little tunnel in the padding but it turns and can’t make anything out beyond that.  

Dane is quite concerned that the critter might be in there, though he is not concerned that the creature can summon Ahuatemoc since that is a ritual that Dane casts using the brazier as a focus.  We enter the room, Dane casts Bless on himself, Chibo, and Rook.  Dane and Chibo approach the box while Xotl stands near the door in case something tries to escape.

Dane opens the box, doesn’t see anything in particular.  He takes out the brazier, to Inspect it, and notes planted on the bottom is planted a slightly larger than a silver dollar starfish made out of Khyber crystal - and as he notes it, it flickers and a shadow of flame appears in the brazier.  The brazier begins to disintegrate as a sheet of fire erupts from it, and a serpent made of black flame erupts from it.  

The serpent lashes out at Dane but misses entirely.  Filled with rage, Dane engages his armor, and casts spiritual weapon.  Xotl peers around the corner, sees the shadowy flame, and puts his hands to his temple and squeezes his eyes together to cast Mind Thrust.  Chibo scrambles away and attempts to banish the creature, but fails miserably as it saves with a very high charisma save.  Rook manages to slightly injure it with frostbite.

A rift opens up in the deck below Chibo, and the monster is down in the bilge - but he manages to dodge to the side.  Xotl launches a fireball into the bilge and lights the fucker up.  Chibo transforms Gose into Eldritch Tardigrade Gose and she launches herself into the bilge.  She fails to hit and takes 9 fire damage though she also heals on her next turn.

Rook dashes topside to direct the elemental emitters to fill the bilge with water to put out the flames.  

Dane dodges as the floor collapses under him, and notes that the fire does not seem to affect the creature.  He casts a Guardian of Faith into the bilge.  Dane points out to Chibo that if he were to get up to the emitters it would enable the fire to be put out faster.  Chibo instead opts for Eldritch Blast, critically hitting with one blast.  Xotl blasts it with Dragon’s Breath.  

Rook directs the interns to point the elemental emitters down into the hold - and the bilge fills up rapidly while water pours out the seams of the hull.  A massive coil of black flame bursts through two decks and tries to coil around Rook, crushing him and lifting him far above the deck.

Dane casts Sacred Flame but it saves.  He then runs to the upper deck to get a clear vision on this beast.  Xotl also runs up and casts Chaos Bolt but fails.  

Chibo nails the beast with two Eldritch Blasts and pushes it away, releasing Rook.  Battle Gose catches Rook because she cannot reach the beast.  The two take significant damage from the fall, but Gose recovers most of that.

Dane stares the beast in the eyes as he tells it he is to send it back whence he came, and Tolls the Dead.  As Dane presents his holy symbol, it becomes wreathed in shadow and the shadow flame becomes briefly Ahuatemoc and then it fades away and Dane plummets to the ground.  Dane reels as he looks up at the sky, covered in the ash of his guardian.  

*****

Rook looks around to get a status report - while Artien strolls up and asks “what the hell?!”

Half the ship is scorched, the other half is waterlogged.  Dane suggests they investigate further - was there something that planted the khyber on the brazier, or was the khyber was the construct itself?  

Rook inspects the ship - fixable but expensive and at least a couple of weeks.  He asks Artien’s opinion on the note: Artien thinks it may not have been the primary goal.

We start an interrogation near the ship - Dane casts Zone of Truth several times to ensure all fail saves… Rosa admits having been a spy before, and suggests that she only has our crew’s best interests at heart… but doesn’t deny not spying… Chibo’s Detect Thoughts can’t even detect her.  They send the aeroines and the interns away but even then she says there are too many ears around.  

To the Champagne Room!  We order some booze, and Chibo begins to prepare a Tiny Hut to prevent magical scrying.  Dane recasts Zone of Truth until Rosa and everyone else but Xotl is under the spell.  Chibo compliments her cooking and company, and then asks, now that prying ears are away, who is it you serve?

She pulls out a black crystal from her bodice.  She is a night hag!  Sora Klein.  Rook asks about the box - she is not aware.  She approached Xotl in his dream to heal him, but was not the Rakshasa nurse.  Rook does not believe the nurse was a different night hag, as they would not likely be working at cross purposes.  

Xotl asks if she is a cool night hag, why would she be hanging out with us? “I serve the daughters of Sora Kell - I have spent ages in their family as they fashion it and in that time it’s been my responsibility to see to their interests, and at present their interests are in forming a stable, safe, prosperous nation - and when they did so, Breland considered it an act of war - even if they never had a justifiable hold on the territory and instead view it as a place of savages and monsters.  The Daughters sought acknowledgment, and sought under the treaty of Thronehold.  It was denied.  Representation would have included representation in SPAN.  Sought to do so in good faith, using tools and opportunities available to us - presence allows her to report to her sisters and interests of Droaam are being sufficiently attended to and prevent a return to war not in Droaam’s best interests.”

Chibo asks about what if there were other interests seeking to disrupt the treaty of Thronehold?  She knows of Hiram as Sulhirim, and that we stumbled into a trap trying to besmirch the reputation of SPAN and we did an admirable job of mitigating the damage.  He is known as a master manipulator and does not stick around when failure is imminent.  That being said, it seems as though Hiram has a ploy that involves Xotl, and as we’ve surmised from our visit to the planar observatory, the fragment of Draconic Prophecy it may not be sufficient but at least necessary for the release of Eldrantuku.

She suggests that trying to manipulate the Prophecy would possibly result in adverse consequences if it disrupts another part of the Prophecy.  It is more likely that the Lords of Dust would be playing toward these adverse consequences.  Xotl pipes in that this is deterministic bullshit!  What about Free Will?!  She suggests it is not deterministic - but that it is cause and effect.

Rook asks, if the Prophecy does hinge on free will, we’re going about ways to avoid fulfilling a fragment of prophecy, maybe we act that our free will dictates we act - do what we think is right and let the prophecies sort themselves out.  Rosa nods sagely.

Rosa suggests that direct antagonism of Sulhirim/Hiram is probably a bad idea - if he provoked us, he is trying to get us to act.  And that would play directly into his hands.  Dane insists that action is called for.  His family has always acted that revenge is a dish best served immediately.  Rook tries to talk him down - our only way to survive the fight and earn a chance for revenge is by acting in a way he won’t expect or anticipate, by refusing to play his game.  Save that fire, we’ll need it.

Rosa interjects: Hiram is an immortal, unkillable being.  We are limited in our ability to respond.  Our best bet is to disrupt his plans and delay his game of multidimensional chess.  If we strike his physical form down, he will be back in a time to him relative to a blink.  We have to take something he cannot get back.

Xotl suggests the prophecy is the thing he cares about - delay his fulfillment of the Prophecy.  

Rook suggests we find a way to take out the Fallen Star with subterfuge.  We suggest back that trying to derail the prophecy is likely to backfire.

Xotl brings up Toby, and Rosa suggests the essence of Eldrantuku that Xotl carries with him was enough to seduce Toby to betray SPAN and betray Xotl - he became an adept of Eldrantuku.  

Artien asks Rosa, what do you know of Xotl’s crystal - she says, it’s not her area of expertise, but she surmises that our working understanding is likely correct - this is a fragment of a crystal housing an overlord.  Rosa does not believe our first contact with Kalos Bombax was Hiram - when Kalos Bombax foiled Bleak’s plan.  

In the interest of full disclosure, Rosa says she did not intend on intervening in Xotl’s plight but seemed as if it were something we were unable to address, she felt compelled to step in, which is why it appeared to be her, and not the rakshasa nurse.  She states it’s still imperative that she maintain this human guise and if she is revealing herself to other members of the crew or SPAN that would jeopardize her ability to remain in this capacity.

Next steps: redacted debrief to SPAN, then work on getting back to Thronehold.  We have time to prepare reports, plot, deliver to Thronehold.

Xotl, wondering whether he could get a cat like Toby’s displacer beast.  Dane derails that by promising a cat cheap and fast - and after our scene he peers into a back alley, grabs a nappy stray, puts it in a box, and gives it to Xotl - He names it Qat.

Rook talks to his sister and mentions that he suspects the dragon marked houses, including their own, might be up to something - preparing for war like everyone else, but either together or separately bring a conflict about to sabotage the peace process because they’ll profit if the Great War starts again. He warns her to keep an eye out on the fam and let him know if anything comes up.  She knows the houses have always looked out for themselves but agrees to look out.

In our reports to SPAN, we mention that we found a vision of conflict between the Fallen Star and the Rising Tide, and potential actions of the Houses that conflict with the goals of SPAN.  We also put in some positive words about Droaam not being as bad as everyone thinks.

When we arrive, the main questions we get related to our report, are regarding the “vision” - the director is inclined to protect the Rising Tide, and once a compelling reason why it should not be protected and mothballed - why it should not be removed from operations?  Rook answers, as mobile operations and force projection, and visible representation of SPAN, outweighs the slim possibility of entanglement.  The director says she will hold Rook to his word as a member of House Lyrandar and will not allow the Rising Tide to remain in a zone of activity around the Fallen Star.

Next assignment: we are heading to Flamekeep to investigate an assassination!  










