Having wrapped up the mess in Prospect with Frank Drake and Kela, we find ourselves on two weeks’ shore leave in Blutheim, and have a reunion with Rinoa’s family.  The town is a small mining town, blessed with minimal violence or threat from the lizard folk.  Predominantly Karrnathi, followers of Blood of Vol, not quite a religious community but feared religious persecution.  She decides to meet with them first with a small group - Rinoa and Chibo.  The rest are resupplying.  We head to where their home is, Rinoa’s aunt Ceres answers the door.  Tall, muscularly built, from working in the mine.  She recognizes Rinoa and hugs her warmly and ushers us inside.  Uncle Saz sees her come in, he trots over and grabs up Rinoa as well.  Previously he had been unable to walk, with no left leg - now he’s got two full legs!

He says it is a prosthetic and he’s had it for three months or so.  Seems a little suspicious but he quickly ushers us in.  Introducing myself and bowing, I note a creaking of wood and faint sloshing of liquid in the prosthetic - longer than the other leg (with a platform shoe on the other to even it), and bulky and angular.  We sit down for some reptile sausages and not-exactly-potatoes (a water tuber type of veg).  Rinoa fills them in on our adventures with SPAN, and asks how they are - it’s not easy but wonderful to feel like we have independence.  Chibo catches some wistfulness, as if Ceres is trying to convince herself.  Marco is working a second job beyond the mine.  Rinoa and Ceres are both a bit worried - his job is to run odd jobs for someone in town.  

During the next day we get stuff done; the next night, still no Marco.  

The eve of the third day: Chibo catches Rook listening outside his door as if trying to hear what’s inside; Rook confronts Chibo about Gose.  Chibo gathers everyone and tells some about his project with the Tome.  Rook, as a navigator, inspects the book - he cannot do anything with it, but he is pretty sure the band of gold is an accurate representation of the night sky - the gold band being the band of Siberys and the silver the other parts of the night sky; he doesn’t know where this would be.  He will start to look into star maps to figure out where this might be though this will probably not be possible until getting back to a bigger city.  

When Chibo tries to hand the book to Xotl, Gose moves to intervene - “you cannot understand the repercussions” - perhaps the chaos aspect of Xotl’s magic - and when he moves the book toward Xotl’s crystal, the crystal’s aura tries to reach out and grab it; Xotl makes a move to physically grab the book but Chibo pulls it out of the way quickly.  While Xotl doesn’t get the book, it does seem to have an impact on his crystal - changing the shape of it in some way.  He apologizes profusely for his rash act and runs to his room to hide.  Chibo comes clean to the rest on his fragment of the Draconic Prophecy (without telling what it is) and the risk from the Lords of Dust, wondering if Xotl’s crystal is somehow tied in as well.

Everyone goes to bed with questions on their mind.

The next morning - a voice from near the ship calls out for permission to come aboard - it’s Marco.  Rinoa invites him aboard.  He’s got a letter or something tucked into a pocket.  Rinoa takes him to her quarters to speak confidentially - “I think we’re in trouble, I need your help” - there’s more to the leg story than they let on.  They had to go into serious debt to get it, and Marco took on the debt to pay it off, in debt to maybe dangerous people.  They knew Marco’s relation to Rinoa and if she does a mission for them they’ll forgive the whole debt - to bring a specific Warforged in to them alive.  He hands her the letter with an image of the Warforged’s identity symbol.  The group is the Bloodforge Posse - they take Warforged parts and graft ‘em on to living people.  And, scene!

*****

Rinoa is taken aback by the notion of Warforged parts on people.  This is a morally grey area for her, since it sounds shady, but she wants to keep her family safe.  She does not want to cause any issues with SPAN or her companions.  Marco says it’s been a year since Saz got the prosthetic; once he heard of it he was intent on getting it.  The price they asked was too great; so Marco offered the Bloodforge Posse to take on some of the debt to make the price reasonable.  He has been doing odd jobs - deliveries etc - and not asking questions; this new request that he get Rinoa to bring in the Warforged seems to be an offer he can’t refuse.

Rinoa comes to Chibo to pick his brain on it.  Chibo is uncertain about the moral standing of Warforged, but he is troubled by the predatory aspect of the Bloodforge Posse on the miners of the region, and the potential for necromancy.  The two of them go to the mine to find Saz and find out about his leg.  He says no one really likes the Posse but they are pleased with the results.  

Chibo doesn’t make his Arcana roll but Rinoa uses her field medicine experience to inspect the connection.  Chibo gets that the leg is not magical, and no particular schools of magic (no necromantic), but thinks there is somewhere in the interior where the metal binds to the flesh there is a telltale energy of Khyber crystals.  

We return to the ship; Rook is practicing Absorb Elements and Xotl is helping while exploring the new properties of his crystal (his increased affinity with it gives him +1 to spell attacks and spell DC).  As they return to the ship, Chibo watches Xotl from afar to figure out what is up with the crystal.   Rinoa calls together the crew and we discuss the problem.  It seems as if we could pull a fast one on the Bloodforge Posse and get the Warforged on our side - but kidnapping is not an option for Rook and Evertonette.

We build a Howdah for Mr. Stubbs and depart for the nearby town Highground where the Warfare is known to be hiding.  As we approach we see a plume of smoke from a smithy in the middle of the ghost town, and can hear several voices.  The town is in a 100 foot clearing that is being reclaimed by the jungle, with a lot of undergrowth encroaching and providing color.  Chibo and Rook stealth up a little closer; Chibo sends Gose to stealth closer to the Smithy.  

Gose stealths up to a tavern or inn, and climbs up a bit - the smithy has been boarded up, and newly added boards to secure it, perhaps in the last couple of weeks based on the vegetation.  Through her I can hear between half a dozen and a dozen voices, and some activity, and a Lhazaarite accent directing the activity inside.  Snippets of conversation sounds like he’s directing smith-style activity.  Gose sweeps again and notes that it appears that some people have been living in the inn.  

We wait a half hour or so, and start to hear the hammering of metal diminishing, and conversation that sounds like they’re wrapping up.  Just after sunset, the door slides over heavily and a tall well-structured silhouette in the door, pretty sure it’s a war forged, steps out into the night and closes the door.  He walks over to the inn, enters for a minute, walks back to the Smithy and leads the group (nine humans - five female, four male, one with an equalizer) back to the inn.  At the very last moment, we are pretty sure the first human behind the war forged has an equalizer.  

We decide to approach the inn and feign that we are weary travelers looking for shelter.  The door is heavy and barred; when we approach, we hear heavy footsteps and a door slit opens up, revealing the glowing eyes of a Warforged.  He does not believe our story, despite using Gose to make a scary sound.  We introduce ourselves as friends of Kela Vax; he responds “so you’re here for me then.”

He asks, “which of you is the greatest threat?”  Rook points to Chibo, and the Warforged says he will talk with me then.  Chibo enters and sets aside his weapons.  The lights are low, but he can make out the Warforged’s symbol and verify his identity.  The war forged is aiming a mounted wand at him.  Aside from the usual, he has some red dragon scales - it’s Slinger!  Chibo wanders behind the bar, pours a couple of shots.

The two converse, Slinger asks his background and mission and his connection to Kela Vax.  Chibo spills the beans more or less; eventually a man comes down the stairs and turns out he is Henrique Ventura.  Henrique confirms with Slinger that Chibo is on the up and up, and then allows Chibo to invite the rest of the crew in.  After introductions, Rinoa explains the dilemma.  Henrique Ventura asks whether this Bloodforge Gang has any notion of what they are doing.  

As friends of Kela Vax, he has some sense of trust of us and explains that his operation is a threat to House Cannith, which is trying to stop his operation.  It is difficult to know whether there is a connection between Cannith and the Bloodforge Posse.

Ventura asks whether in our capacity in SPAN is to serve the Treaty of Thronehold or the countries who have signed it?  Rook steps in and says we serve the Treaty.  He shows his dragon mark to show that he is not Cannith.  Ventura tells us that his group’s mission is to ensure that Cannith does not hold a monopoly on the weapons of war.  It is his belief that if he provides Equalizers to the poor and downtrodden and helpless, they can stand up to oppressive regimes.  He is teaching local smiths to craft Equalizers, who then go on to teach others, etc.   

However, none of this is relevant to our reason for being here.  Their operation will certainly need to move now; Ventura suggests that Slinger would be free to participate in our mission and the Disciples would make sure to defend themselves until his return.  Rinoa implores Slinger to join us; Slinger responds “when there is not a clear path, one should do what is right.  Your family is in trouble, and the world does not seem to need this Bloodforge Posse.  I will join you.”  And scene!

*****

Xotl and Rook stay behind to help protect the disciples; the rest of us are on the howdah on Mr. Stubbs and approach town, coming up with a plan.  Some ideas: 
- send Slinger in with a Mind Spike, along with one of us as an extra captive, to track them to their hideout.
- barge in and fuck shit up.
Looks like we’re going with Option 2.

The mine is set up with a warehouse nearby with 50’ clearcut around out, that butts up to the mining area, more of a strip surface mine.  Other administrative buildings as well.  A lot of dirt and mud on roads around it.  The warehouse is 100’ x 150’ x 30’ tall.  Ev and Chibo disguise themselves and wander the area.  We can look into the warehouse easily and see crates around, with equipment and pre-processed dragon shards.  Each of the doors has a guard on it.  The guards seem to know who’s supposed to go in and out.  It looks like there’s a lot of activity inside.  

Chibo instantiates Gose in a tree near the warehouse, lets her turn invisible and glide in through an open second-story window in spectacular fashion.  She reports back:
4 access points, 30 secondary access points (upper level), count 32 personnel - 15 shard handlers, 6 patrolling, remainder (11) moving material - 714 crates, primary activity addition and removal of supplies, secondary activity packing of atypical eberron shards (supplemental magic)

Qbarra known for two unusual classes of Eberron shards - Dawn shards, orange with crimson threads, Dusk shards, smoky grey with vivid red veins.  These are 90% typical, 7% Dawn, 3% dusk.  

Ev and Chibo both note that the guy on the SW entrance on the long side, furthest from admin and facing jungle, has his right arm covered to the elbow in a heavy brown glove - a tiny bit of stone and wood-like material evident from within the glove.  

We return to the group, get in a short rest.  We approach with Slinger apparently unconscious in a wagon, and approach the far corner.  One of the guards lifts a hooded bullseye lantern and stops us.  Rinoa calls out and says we have cargo they are expecting.  The guard goes around the corner to talk with another and returns.  He says we’ve done good work and can be on our way.  Rinoa insists we are to go with him.  He seems to agree, but goes to knock on the guardroom door.  The guard returns with three others, clearly with war forged parts.  The main guard takes the wagon with Slinger and leads us to the forest.  With Gose off in the distance running point.  As we get near, they try to send us away but Rinoa insists again, and with Gose cracking a branch in the distance, they agree to let us follow.  We are in the deepest jungle now.  The guard goes to some standing stones, three slabs leaning together.  The fourth slab he leans on and it slides smoothly with a grinding sound.  He says “follow me”.

We go down a flight of stairs.  8’ tall and 10’ wide channels with some side passages.  The guard whispers through a murder hole on the side and says “let’s go”.  We’re probably 100 yards in, and roll into an aperture, an octagonal room with sand on the floor, and he gestures for us to go in.  In each corner there are braziers, something magical about each of them.  The guards flank the entry door, and a stone door on the far side opens up. 

A hulking figure with black draconic scaled head and two golden eyes and massive form steps out onto the sand: Caluqrin Klota, a Dragonborn amalgam of random Warforged parts.  It says, “you’ve done good work - did not expect you to arrive so soon, but not surprised.”  This is probably the parts of 6-7 Warforged juggernauts.  

Through the door come another 6 humans with war forged parts.

Many things happen all at once.  Rinoa shouts, “Slinger: Now!” And he springs to life, planting his feet on Caluqrin’s chest and flinging himself off and across the room.  Slinger glows brightly for a second and four points in my vision flare with darkness and then I cannot see magic any more.  

Rinoa draws her sword and attacks Caluqrin Klota: “You threatened my family, time to pay!”  Slinger says: “They’ve done something, I can’t cast spells!”  He deploys his dagger and moves into a defensive position.  Dane casts Bless, but cannot tap into the silver flame!  He backs up and is closer to the guards behind him.  

Chibo aims for one of the braziers but miss; he Awakened Minds to the rest of the group and notices that it actually goes through.  Can he use his psychic abilities?

Caluqrin swings at Rinoa but misses.  He moves toward Slinger, inviting an opportunity attack from Rinoa, who hits for a substantial hit.  He shrugs it off (Second Wind) and swings toward Slinger but misses.  A second strike hits him though and knocks him across the sand.  Ev strikes at two of the guards as she draws her blade.  She drops one and slices the other.  

One guard attacks her and another attacks Dane, but both miss.  The other six mob Rinoa, and three hit, one with a crit.  She gets her own second wind, and takes out one of them.

Dane uses Orders Demand to demand they surrender.  Two guards drop their weapons and fall prone.  Caluqrin fails and falls prone.  

Slinger is engaged in melee with Caluqrin but having a hard time, trying to duck, dodge, dive.  But with Caluqrin prone, he slips away and gets some distance.  

Chibo fails to hit the purple orb again.  He does note that there’s a lock on it, however.  Evertonette takes out another guard with a backhand, then runs to engage the one attacking Dane, cracking him across the skull but not knocking him down.  Five attack Rinoa but all miss.  She kills two with a single massive head-chopping blow.

Dane attacks the damaged guard but misses, and then moves toward Caluqrin, distracting him and allowing Slinger to dodge a blow.  Chibo tries to pick a lock but fails.  He runs to Ev and tries to convince her to open the locks, and stabs one of the dudes attacking her.

Caluqrin clocks Slinger and gets pushed back.  Dane jumps in to absorb another blow and takes a hit.  Ev picks a lock, and finds a crystal inside, purple with runes in it.  One of the remaining guards makes a desperate lunge toward Rinoa and hits for a small amount of damage.  She cleaves him across the chest but he is still up.  Two others miss her.

Dane takes another swing at Caluqrin but again misses.  Chibo runs over to the crystal and smashes it, and notices that he can once again see magic in the area near him.  He tells this to Ev and messages this to Slinger.  Evertonette fails to open the next one, but gives Slinger some inspiration.  Slinger runs over to the magic zone, and casts a spell to armor himself.  

Caluqrin runs past Dane to get to the invigorated Slinger; Dane fails to connect with an opportunity attack.  Caluqrin swings at Slinger; one miss, one hit but the impact is dramatically lessened.  He then grapples Slinger and drags him back to the anti magic side.  

Rinoa’s three attack, one hits.  She takes one out.  Slinger gets hits again while being grappled.  

Ev unlocks another cage, and tosses the crystal to Chibo.  By moving out beyond Slinger, he can re-engage the magic for him.  Dane blesses Chibo, Ev, and Slinger, who breaks free of the grapple, and then smashes Caluqrin with a spiritual hammer.  Caluqrin grapples once again and drags him back into antimatter.

Ev opens another and tosses the crystal to Rinoa.  Again, Slinger is free of the magic, and casts Disintegrate, reducing Caluqrin into a pile of ash.  Rinoa captures the final standing guard and subdues him.  

*****

After the fighting noise subsides, the guard outside thinks Caluqrin has been victorious, and opens the door.  We obliterate him and fight our way out from the inside, destroying about half the garrison.

The bunker appears to have been built by dragonborn.  The guard we captured answers some of our questions - this is the extent of the operation; he’d been working for Caluqrin for about five years, since near the beginning.  This is the first he’d heard of Caluqrin wanting a live Warforged.  

We find about 10,000 gp worth of Khyber crystals… or was it 9,000?









