Rockpoint - settling up from prior adventures.

House Civis communications post - two letters for us.  One: Chibo promoted to 1st level Occultant.  The parcel contains a merchant’s scale, five waterproof belt pouches (for storing creature parts or other items), and a stabacus.
Stabacus - cross between an abacus and a Hoberman’s sphere - can be pressed into softball size or expanded to beachball size, each with beads representing people on the team.  Used to tally and track the kills of the team and karmic balances.  

Read the Kill: The occultant may spend one minute with their stabacus studying the body of a creature killed by the Team in the past 24 hours to gain insight on the kill’s impact to the Team’s fate. The DM will provide an explanation of causal implications of this creature’s death, with a focus on factors that affect the Team. The Occultant may not use this ability again until they complete a long rest.



The other is a note addressed to our SPAN team.  Our mission is to locate Scrimford Shaw - in distress pursued by unknown party, he holds important top secret information.  Search in upper reaches of Horunda Valley in Mror Holds. “Locate an operative in the mountains of the Mror Holds, and extract their intelligence. He is a human male named Scrimford Shaw. We received a message that he is in distress and being pursued by an unknown party. He was able to indicate his general location, but was on the move. Search for him in the upper reaches of the Horunda Valley, at the far northern reaches of the Hoarfrost Mountains, near the coast. The intelligence is subject to highest-tier quarantine and anti-dissemination protocols.”

Rook begins planning the travels - contacts his sister who helps get us priority for an elemental galleon, by reprioritizing other ships.  But this is a big ask for her.  The ship will get us near and drop us off.  We are in a cold, scrubby, relatively flat sandy stretch that lead to the foothills.  Rook suggests making way to the foothills and set up camp.  Vandare finds evidence of a camp site from maybe two or three days ago.  Between three and ten individuals.

Rather than set up camp, we decide to hoof it through the night.  The non-dark vision folks stick with dark-vision enabled folks to make sure we are good.  We reach our destination and set up camp till daybreak - Rook and Vandare take watches.  No incidents.  Break camp in the morning.  The terrain becomes more rocky and granite with sparse forest.  We find some tracks of a smallish group of humanoids, rustic boot prints.  Vandare helps us track them, heading north (we are on the south face of the valley) until we spot 150 yards out, signs of a camp, but no people yet.  Vandare creeps toward the camp, and sees evidence of a fight - blood.  Kitchen, animal skins on racks, and stench of death.  He checks the tents to make sure no one is there.  But then a tent flap bursts open and a brown blur attacks him - furry quadrupedal creature with claws and short tail - like an oversized wolverine.  Vandare speaks with animals - the wolverine says he found the people dead in the tent - they were apparently trappers.  But they’ve apparently been here for weeks, so aren’t the bootprints we were following.

We walk as a group to the camp.  The tent with the wolverine is safari style - this is a base camp that’s been here for weeks.  Trapper base camp and trappers probably go out into the field from here.  Xotl does not think this is the bad guys.  Vandare talks with the wolverine to convince it to let us investigate the tent, though the beast warns us not to touch his meat.  Chibo and Vandare go in.  Six badly mangled human male corpses - the wolverine has been working at them.  Rack with bows unstrung, so taken by surprise.  As I approach the bags the wolverine gets more aggressive.  In the bags are just random personal effects - clothes, cards, no identifying information.  None of the bodies matches the description of Scrimford Shaw.  These people seem to have been asleep in the tent, someone came in and executed them summarily.  They have been dead for a week or so, wounds mostly seem to be slashing weapons, with other wounds that seem like a beast but don’t fit the wolverine.  

Wolverine says “too many two legs” - smelled them crawling all over the valley.  Exploring the rest of the camp - the food box in the kitchen has been broken into.  The footprints we’re following are more recent than the kills.  We follow the trail out of camp up toward the hills but will need to set up camp soon.  Vandare in the lead springs a deadfall trap.  He saves and takes half damage and notices a pair of orcs with spears, 20 feet up and 50 feet ahead of Rook (100 feet ahead of everyone else).  Rook hides and tries to close stealthily; he spots five more from his new vantage point.  

Chibo misses with a crossbow.  Vandare wings one with a longbow.  Xotl uses chaos bolt - and nails the wounded one with psychic energy.  Dane throws a healing word at Vandare, then uses Voice of Authority to give Vandare an additional out of turn attack, who then clips another in the shoulder.  The orc drops his spear and starts to try to save his friend.  More orcs come around the corner and get a surge of aggression and charge with great axes at Vandare.  A fourth one raises a spear and a shaft of silver light lances out toward Vandare - misses then pushes through the other two and reaches out to grab by the throat.  

Rook runs toward the spell caster, gets in close to threaten the orc and if the orc doesn’t stand down he will strike.  In goblin: “Call them off or you’ll be the first to die.”  The orc responds “you are not our quarry - we do not need this fight.” We all fail our insight checks… but it seems we are out of combat mode for now.  They seek the “Tainted Ones” and have been pursuing them for two months, and have been playing cat-and-cat for three days.  Anything that emerges from the demon wastes is tainted and they must destroy it - the sacred charge of the Gashkalar.  These tainted ones are shifters that have been traveling east with a singular purpose.  Xotl points out that the shifters may be the ones trying to get to our boy.  The orc’s name is Wutgarek Ghaash'kala.  

Dane heals the more injured of the orcs, who thanks him.  We will join them as allies; they will try to keep our man alive and we will assist them in their hunt.  Rook outlines a plan - we keep our trail visible to lead the shifters to an ambush of our choosing (at the current site).  Shifters are not interested in standing and fighting and give them no opportunity to retreat.  The orcs have seen twelve shifters in the past.  

We set up Dane to impersonate our impression of Scrimford Shaw, and a couple of fake sleeping figures - at a campfire while the rest of us hide and prepare for the ambush.  Late in the night, a group of four shifters approaches, prepares to attack the campfire, but they catch our scent and know something is afoot.

*****

Orcs finish off two of the four shifters.  
Chibo Dissonant Whispers one, and Dane finishes it off.
The fourth is injured, fails to reveal much info to us.  He says the rest of the pack is on the trail of the quarry and has probably already gotten him.  Ev blasts it with an eldritch blast to finish it off.

Chibo reads the kill - the beads whirl around, I am processing info on intuition and instinct; it paints a picture in my mind about the qualities of this kill.  1) well justified under charter.  2) prevented harm from befalling the team and SPAN. 3) insight - this kill puts us on the trajectory of having the advantage - had it not taken place they would have shared info about our group and it would have caused problems for us.

Vandare tracks the trail back a half mile, where it reaches a larger set of tracks, which lead off another mile, where we’re heading basically east.  The tracks split again - about 50/50.  No sign of Shaw.  We split the group - Vandare and Rook with the orcs, one orc, Tarou, with the rest of us.  We take the right path.  It leads us to a fairly conspicuous item at the edge of a trail with a stick standing straight up with red cloth tied around it.  

A scroll tube wedged in the rock.  Evertonette spots green glinting eyes off in the distance that blink and then disappear.  From the way the scroll is arranged there are scratches that don’t match with the rocks - guess that it was pulled out then put back; the cap looks opened and closed recently - someone already looked and put it back.  It appears to be a bullet list but can’t make out the writing at first - but recognize it as a SPAN cipher - the ink moves around the page and rewrites itself as I read it - a series of instructions.  

1 To locate Operative Shaw, walk 730 paces northeast, unless Zindledack’s ears are open (COMM - always open).
2 415 steps west if Gorgomel prefers sausage to bacon. (NO GORGOMEL)
3 -> 1200 footfalls south
4 -> 1570 west in Bronson’s shoes (BRONSON IS A DWARF - HALF STEPS)
5 615 N if Gauss’s husband is tall, E if average, S if short (MARRIED TO WOMAN)
6 -> 900 strides southeast
7 -> Continue towards the Head of Research’s birthplace (BRANCH WATER - HALFORC FROM ELDEEN)
-> If Scott is a peach, execute in reverse order, if a lemon, 41357. (SCOTT IS A LEMON)

After several trials, we finally figure it out: Execute #4, skip 1, execute 3, 5 (assume it means West); we end up standing in a small stream.  There we realize that 7: birthplace of Branch Water - means walk upstream.  We go a third of a mile or so, near the cliff, and a broad spring runs out of the cave with cold ankle deep water filling the passage around a large stone.  Xotl continues up the passage and finds Shaw in an oblong 20 x 40 cavity - wrapped in rags and bleeding, pointing a crossbow at Xotl.  Dane uses healing kit on him but sees he’s got a pretty bad infection.  Xotl uses a totem potion on him.

Meanwhile, Ev and Chibo are outside - some shifters start to approach us.  A fifth man turns into a wolf-hybrid human form.  We duck into the cave and defend the choke point - Ev and Tarou in the front.  Chibo wings a shifter with a crossbow bolt, and Xotl hits it with a ray of frost.  Ev blasts the werewolf, and Chibo hits it with a dissonant whisper.

Dane sticks his head out to attack - sees four shifters around the cave mouth, and the werewolf sneaks up from behind and grapples him.  Dane hits him with a point blank Sacred Flame.

Ev steps out to find what happened to Dane, leaving the orc guarding the door.  She tries to pull Dane away and blasts the wolf in the face.  The wolf bites Dane and tries to savage his face, but Dane gets his shield up.  He still gets raked along the side with a vicious claw.

Xotl destroys a shifter with a chaos bolt of acid.  Chibo hits another with a bolt.  Tarou chops the wolf and breaks his wrist to allow Dane to escape.  Chibo misses with another bolt, but grabs Dane and pulls him inside, taking an opportunity attack in return.  Ev takes a hit, Dane ducks inside.  Xotl runs into the passage to get where he can see the werewolf, and nails the wolf with another chaos bolt.  It freezes his leg solid and he is stuck in the ice, looking quite the worse for wear.  Ev blasts the lycanthrope with her wand under its chin, and its brain goes flying everywhere.  The bushes then erupt with six orcs, an elf, and a half elf who close and take out the rest of the shifters.  Chibo takes out the shifter attacking Ev.  The remaining shifters are taken out by the orcs.  The lycanthrope shifts back to his human form.

The orcs burn all the bodies but hold on to the wolf until morning so Chibo can read the kill.  We take a rest.

We question Shaw on his info.  He is grateful for our intercession - he would not have made it much longer.  He can’t tell us much but it’s a pretty important mission.  Now he just needs to get back to Thronehold.

Reading the werewolf kill - this individual was a substantial threat to SPAN and his kill was entirely justified, and that by killing him we have rendered the organization more safe and more generally the world is a better place without him.  Had he not been killed there was a high likelihood of serious repercussions.  

We start heading west toward Thronehold on foot and need to find transport and healing (for Shaw).

***

Chibo’s adventure in stealing the document:

You carefully plan out how to avoid detection, timing your move with Vandare ranging afield and placing yourself in an innocuous, attentive position with Shaw. 

The first scroll tube you slip from his pack contains several single-use cyphers: an alphabet paired with randomly assigned letters that shift depending on each letter’s position in a word. The cyphers are generated in pairs, with both given an identifier and one copy being sent with the operative and the other being archived at headquarters. Without the key, it is practically impossible to decrypt for short messages. 

You are able to replace this scroll case back into the pack and retrieve another. You loosen a wax seal with heat from the fire and slip out a single sheaf of parchment. It has a short identification code in the upper right and a brief series of text in a random jumble of letters, clearly one of the single-use cyphers, which has almost certainly been destroyed. 

As you look over the note, the letters begin to twitch on the page. They squirm and wriggle like a puddle full of mosquito larvae, reconfiguring into comprehensible language. 

“The fractured jewel will splinter when the helix-born shouts down the cloud of silver with the mountain’s heart; an old spider will watch as it weaves a web of shadows.”

You commit the message to memory, then replace the note and repair the wax seal. You are able to return the scroll tube to Shaw’s pack with nimble fingers as you tend to him, and encourage him to roll the bundle beneath him as he settled into a different sleeping position. It is several minutes before Vandare checks back in, and no one seems to be aware of your legerdemain. 

***

In the morning, Wutgarek and the Gashkala bid us farewell.  Speaking with Shaw, Rook asks him about how he got to this place.  We can make it to Skairn, a modest fishing village, or Korunda Gate, a major city, in about a week.  We break camp, follow the Horunda valley down to the coast, intending to head toward Skairn.  Half a day later we’re on the short grasses on the coast hills.  We turn toward Skairn, we see a glinting shape in the sky above us.  We see a SPAN airship with an atypical arrangement of rings.  It comes toward us, “The Rising Tide”, and hovers 30 feet above the ground.  A rope ladder is dropped and we are invited aboard. 

Dale “Dally” Lions d’Lyrandar is welcoming us aboard - Rook knows him through friendly competition.  We come aboard (Shaw raised in a cargo lift).  This ship is the bleeding edge technology - and it is ours.  Experimental hybrid drive - airship OR sea galleon - and the one not being used for power can be called upon to generate effects from the emitters (ballistae).  Rosa Kline is our assistant onboard - the steward for the Rising Tide - matronly, reddish brown frizzy hair.  

Rinoa has been on a mission in Karrnath for two weeks of strange locked-room murders involving the Emerald Claw, an extremist sect of the Blood of Vol - victims were people who were vocally against the Claw.

Why us?  Mobile enough to get us around and there may be political issues with Rook onboard…  And now Rook is Level 1 cartographer

We get the tour; we set sail for Korunda Gate, reach there in about six hours; Xotl and Dane take Shaw to a healer and pay to have his wounds tended.  Ev goes to House Civis station to report, and Rinoa goes along; Chibo heads to a library to research.  Rook stays with the ship.  

Rook and Vandare overhear two people at the bar griping - two humans with dragon marks, one tall with short black hair and grease in fingernails (mark of Making) - the other looks like a cyclist with buff calves (mark of Passage) - the Passage guy is griping that “the airship is an abomination - what is their game plan? It looks ridiculous. Lyrandar scum think they can bypass the order of the 12…”

Rook uses gust of wind to knock the guy’s stool out from him; he stands, stalks over to the table and asks if we did that.  Rook uses Performance to feign innocence - the guy notes his Lyrandar mark.  In walks a Dwarf with a mark of Warding.   The dwarf puts his hand on the human’s arm, says “I made the withdrawal, it’s time to leave.”

Shaw is healed up and looking 100%.  He wants to get rid of his message, and hopes leadership will see fit to let us in on it but it’s above his pay grade.  We get to Thronehold without incident.  

Ev and Vandare get an upgrade to their ranks.  Vandare summoned to head of research, Branch Water.  In the center of the research room is a shape like a tree, branching upward, with the mirror image pointing downward - made of a central siege staff, branching off to staves and wands.  On the table is a set of goggles with interchangeable lenses.  Branch gives Vandare a badge of office and “thwarting lenses” - better to observe traps and ambushes that may cause him harm.  Effectively the Dungeon Delver feat.

Evertonette receives a parcel with the upgrade and a documenter’s satchel with paper, quills, etc. Also a Documancer’s seal and homing parchment - it will turn into a paper bird and fly off to the nearest Civis station.

The following day we are summoned to a meeting with Director Gauss, with a confidential meeting - what is discussed here should not leave the room.  We should be given some insight into what that’s all about.  The intelligence Shaw is carrying is a fragment of the Draconic Prophecy - conditions for momentous events.  Few have the knowledge to put all the pieces together - but a secret cabal of Rakshasas and fiends is trying to work the Draconic Prophecy.  The fragment must be secured and cannot fall into enemy hands.  

Vandare then asks about Dr. Soelom.  Director Gauss tells us he had dangerous ambitions and contacted House Vidalis.  They will continue to monitor the situation.  Rook asks about collaboration among houses of Making, Warding, and Passage… nothing comes to her mind, but she can ask around about it.

Chibo checks in with Dr. Lawrence Greaves, Esquire.  He’s pleased about my work and my accounting with Xotl.  He offers to help me with the Stabacus - I’ve been doing generic readings of the kill.  If I want to know more specific information, I can attune it - e.g. If I wanted to know whether the kill was a matter of threat to us physically, reputation, or external interests, you can determine if it were beneficial to a specific avenue of interest.  E.g. tabulate with a specific question in mind.  The underlying arcane theory is on tracing the karmic path of the deceased - so really keyed to the intense moral and psychic impact of a death caused by a SPAN operative.  

When I get back to my room on the ship, I go to my room to get rid of the note ASAP.  On my desk is a book of obsidian, no hinge, but papers sandwiched inside of it.  



